Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Aug. 17, 2026

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Leaders Prepare Together
Rdale leaders have been preparing for the year ahead through intentional learning, collaboration and connection.
Recent opportunities have included Operational Leadership
Development, the MASA/MDE
Welcome Back Conference, and an Aug. 11 K-12 Instructional
Leadership professional learning day.

Leading With Purpose

Leading With Purpose
On Aug. 11, Rdale system leaders
(principals, assistant principals and department leaders) came together to prepare for the year ahead, with a shared focus on creating stronger, more consistent learning experiences for every student.
Leaders aligned around district priorities, instructional practices and our System of Continuous
Improvement-building the shared leadership needed to turn our plans into action.

Leading With Purpose

Leading With Purpose

Staff Return Begins
The 2026-27 school year is almost here! New teachers begin Aug. 18, followed by flex workdays as our teaching staff prepare for students.
Workshop Week begins Aug. 24
with our All Staff District Kickoff at
Armstrong-bringing our Rdale team together around this year's theme: Building Better Together.

Back-to-School Ready
Everything families need to prepare for the 2026-27 school year is available at rdale.org/bts, including school supply lists, open house information and other important resources.
Also, watch your mailbox for our back-to-school mailer, Rdale
Roundup, and look for school-specific communication as open houses take place Aug.
20-27.

First Days of School
The 2026-27 school year begins
Monday, Aug. 31, with a staggered start designed to give students additional support as they transition into the year.
Start dates vary by grade level and program, so families are encouraged to review the full first-week schedule at rdale.org/bts.

Building Better Together: Connecting With Communities
Our Building Better Together outreach is underway. District leaders have presented to the Plymouth and
Brooklyn Center city councils, with additional conversations in Brooklyn
Park, New Hope and across our communities coming soon.
Want to hear the presentation? We've made it easy to find at rdale.org.
Building Better Together

Building Better Together: Join the Conversation
This fall, Rdale will host five community Referendum Talks from
Sept. 9 through Oct. 28 - including two opportunities to tour Cooper.
Also watch your mailboxes for the back-to-school Rdale Roundup, featuring updated Building Better
Together: 2026 Bond Referendum information as well as the information families need to know as they get ready for back-to-school.
Building Better Together

Thank you!