Member Evans-Becker introduced the following Resolution and moved its adoption:
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the District and Superintendent are parties to a Superintendent's
Contract for the term July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2027 ("Contract"); and
WHEREAS, Article VIII, Section 2 of the Contract states that "[i]n addition to base salary ... the Superintendent shall be eligible for performance incentive salary at the end of each year of the Contract. Based on an evaluation and determination of the
Superintendent's success in meeting annually predetermined goals and objectives of the
District, as determined by the School Board, the Superintendent may earn in each
Contract year performance incentive salary up to ten percent (10%) of the base salary in
Article VIII, Section 1. The exact percentage of performance incentive salary will be set annually by the Board, in consultation with the Superintendent, and shall be payable on
June 30, 2025, and each June 30 thereafter during the term of this Contract in the event performance incentive is awarded."
WHEREAS, on June 15, 2026, the School Board met in closed session to evaluate the
Superintendent, including to consider "the Superintendent's success in meeting annually predetermined goals and objectives of the District;" and
WHEREAS, the School Board determined the Superintendent successfully met the predetermined annual goals and objectives; and
WHEREAS, the School Board discussed performance incentive pay while evaluating the
Superintendent's performance, but did not take a public vote on performance incentive pay prior to June 30; and
WHEREAS, by Memorandum of Agreement dated June 29, 2026, the Superintendent agreed to waive the June 30, 2026 deadline for payment of performance incentive pay;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the School Board of Independent School
District No. 281, Robbinsdale Area Schools, as follows:
1. In recognition of the Superintendent's success in meeting annual goals and objectives established by the School Board, the School Board approves the
Superintendent performance incentive for the 2025-2026 school year in the amount of tenpercent (10%) of the Superintendent's base salary for the second year of the Contract.

2. The performance incentive pay identified in Paragraph 1 shall be payable to the
Superintendent on July 10, 2026.
3. The Chief Financial Officer, or a designee, is authorized and directed to use the
District's payroll system to implement this Resolution.
The motion for the adoption of this Resolution was duly seconded by Member
Hillenbrand, and upon a vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor of the
Resolution: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
And the following voted against the Resolution: Bassett, Long
Whereupon this Resolution was declared duly passed and adopted.