Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Original Adoption: August 19, 1985
Approved: August 7, 2023
Revised, Reviewed and Approved: November 4, 2024
Reviewed, Revised: August 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
613 POLICY - .1 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE - GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this administrative procedure is to set forth requirements for graduation from the school district.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT
The administrator procedure aligned to the district policy of the school district is that all students must demonstrate, as determined by the school district, their satisfactory completion of the credit requirements and their understanding of academic standards. The school district must adopt graduation requirements that meet or exceed state graduation requirements established in law or rule.
III. DEFINITIONS
A. "Credit" means a student's successful completion of an academic year of study or a student's mastery of the applicable subject matter, as determined by the school district.
B. "English language learners" or "ELL" student means an individual whose first language is not English and whose test performance may be negatively impacted by lack of English language proficiency.
BC. "Individualized Education Program" or "IEP" means a written statement developed for a student eligible by law for special education and related services.
CD. "Required standard" means: (1) a statewide adopted expectation for student learning in the content areas of language arts, mathematics, science, social studies, physical education, health, and the arts. Locally developed academic standards in health apply until statewide rules implementing statewide health standards under Minnesota Statutes, section
120B.021, subdivision 3, are required to be implemented in the classroom.
DE. "Section 504 Accommodation" means the defined appropriate accommodations or modifications that must be made in the school environment to address the needs of an individual student with disabilities.
IV. DISTRICT ASSESSMENT COORDINATOR
The Assistant Director of Learning Analytics and Impact Research, Evaluation and Assessment

shall be named the District Assessment Coordinator. Said person shall be in charge of all test procedures and shall bring recommendations to the Cabinet and/or the School Board for review and/or approval.
V. ASSESSMENT, GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
A. Graduation Requirements
Students' state graduation requirements, based on a longitudinal, systematic approach to student education and career planning, assessment, instructional support, and evaluation, include the following:
1. Achievement and career and college readiness in mathematics, reading, and writing, consistent with Minnesota Statutes, section 120B.307, subdivision 4, paragraph (d) consistent with paragraph (k) and to the extent available, to monitor students' continuous development of and growth in requisite knowledge and skills; analyze students' progress and performance levels, identifying students' academic strengths and diagnosing areas where students require curriculum or instructional adjustments, targeted interventions, or remediation; and, based on analysis of students' progress and performance data, determine students' learning and instructional needs and the instructional tools and best practices that support academic rigor for the student; and
2. Consistent with this paragraph and Minnesota Statutes section 120B.125 (see
Policy 604, Section II.H), age-appropriate exploration and planning activities and career assessments to encourage students to identify personally relevant career interests and aptitudes and help students and their families develop a regularly reexamined transition plan for postsecondary education or employment without need for postsecondary remediation.
3. Based on appropriate state guidelines, students with an IEP may satisfy state graduation requirements by achieving an individual score on the state-identified alternative assessments.
B. Targeted Instruction Plan
1. A student must receive targeted, relevant, academically rigorous, and resourced instruction, which may include a targeted instruction and intervention plan focused on improving the student's knowledge and skills in core subjects so that the student has a reasonable chance to succeed in a career or college without need for postsecondary remediation.
2. Consistent with Minnesota Statutes, sections 120B.13, 124D.09, 124D.091,
124D.49, and related sections, an enrolling school or district must actively encourage a student in grade 11 or 12 who is identified as academically ready for a career or college to participate in courses and programs awarding college credit to high school students.

Students are not required to achieve a specified score or level of proficiency on an assessment under this subdivision to graduate from high school.
3. As appropriate, students through grade 12 must continue to participate in targeted instruction, intervention, or remediation and be encouraged to participate in courses awarding college credit to high school students.
C. A student's progress toward career and college readiness must be recorded on the student's high school transcript
VI. GRADUATION CREDIT REQUIREMENTS
Students must successfully complete, as determined by the school district, the following high school level credits for graduation:
A. Credit Requirements
1. Four credits of language arts sufficient to satisfy all academic standards in English language arts;
2. Three credits of mathematics sufficient to satisfy all of the academic standards in mathematics;
3. Three credits of science, including one credit to satisfy all the earth and space science standards for grades 9 through 12, one credit to satisfy all the life science standards for grades 9 through 12, and one credit to satisfy all the chemistry or physics standards for grades 9 through 12;
4. Three and one-half credits of social studies, encompassing at least United States history, geography, government and citizenship in either grade 11 or 12 for students beginning in grade 9 in the 2025-2026 school year and later or an advanced placement, international baccalaureate, or other rigorous course on government and citizenship under Minnesota Statutes, section 120B.21, subdivision 1a, and a combination of other credits encompassing at least United States history, geography, government and citizenship, world history, and economics sufficient to satisfy all of the academic standards in social studies;
[NOTE: This revision includes the 2024 change on implementation of the government and citizenship requirement to the 2025-26 school year.]
5. One credit in the arts sufficient to satisfy all of the academic standards in the arts;
6. Credit sufficient to satisfy the state standards in physical education; and
7. A minimum of seven elective credits.
8. Students who begin grade 9 in the 2024-2025 school year and later must successfully complete a course for credit in personal finance in grade 10, 11, or 12.

A teacher of a personal finance course that satisfies the graduation requirement must have a field license or out-of-field permission in agricultural education, business, family and consumer science, social studies, or math.
B. Credit equivalencies
1. A one half credit of economics taught in a school's agriculture, food and natural resources education or business education program or department may fulfill a one-half credit in social studies under Paragraph E, above, if the credit is sufficient to satisfy all of the academic standards in economics.
2. An agriculture science or career and technical education credit may fulfill the elective science credit required under Paragraph D, above, if the credit meets the state physical science, life science, earth and space science, chemistry, or physics academic standards or a combination of these academic standards as approved by the school district. An agriculture or career and technical education credit may fulfill the credit in chemistry or physics required under Paragraph C, above, if the credit meets the state chemistry or physics academic standards as approved by the school district. A student must satisfy either all of the chemistry or all of the physics academic standards prior to graduation. An agriculture science or career and technical education credit may not fulfill the required biology credit under
Paragraph C, above.
3. A career and technical education credit may fulfill a mathematics or arts credit requirement under Paragraph B or Paragraph F, above.
4. A computer science credit may fulfill a mathematics credit requirement under
Paragraph B, above, if the credit meets state academic standards in mathematics.
5. A Project Lead the Way credit may fulfill a science or mathematics credit requirement under Paragraph B or Paragraph D, above, if the credit meets the state academic standards in science or mathematics.
6. An ethnic studies course may fulfill a social studies, language arts, arts, math, or science credit if the course meets the applicable state academic standards.
An ethnic studies course may fulfill an elective credit if the course meets applicable local standards or other requirements.
VII. GRADUATION STANDARDS REQUIREMENTS
A. All students must demonstrate their understanding of the following academic standards.
1. School District Standards, Health (K-12);
2. School District Standards, Career and Technical Education (K-12); and; 3. School
District Standards, World Languages (K-12).
B. Academic standards in health, world languages, and career and technical education will be

reviewed on an annual basis.
*A school district must use the current world languages standards developed by the
American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages.
*Reviews are required to be conducted on a periodic basis. Therefore, this time period may be changed to accommodate individual school district needs.
C. All students must satisfactorily complete the following required Graduation Standards in accordance with the standards developed by the Minnesota Department of Education
(MDE):
1. Minnesota Academic Standards, English Language Arts K-12;
2. Minnesota Academic Standards, Mathematics K-12;
3. Minnesota Academic Standards, Science K-12;
4. Minnesota Academic Standards, Social Studies K-12; and;
5. Minnesota Academic Standards, Physical Education K-12.
D. Academic standards in health, world languages, and career and technical education will be reviewed on an annual basis.
E. The academic standards for language arts, mathematics, and science apply to all students except the very few students with extreme cognitive or physical impairments for whom an
IEP team has determined that the required academic standards are inappropriate. An IEP
team that makes this determination must establish alternative standards.
VIII. EARLY GRADUATION
Students may be considered for early graduation, as provided for within Minn. Stat. § 120B.07, upon meeting the following conditions:
A. All course or standards and credit requirements must be met;
B. The principal or designee shall conduct an interview with the student and parent or guardian, familiarize the parties with opportunities available in post-secondary education, and arrive at a timely decision; and;
C. The principal's decision shall be in writing and may be subject to review by the superintendent and school board.
IX. HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA FOR VETERANS
A. Diploma

The school district must, upon a request under Paragraph B. below issue a high school diploma to a veteran as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 197.447 who was unable to complete their high school education for reasons related or unrelated to their military service, and who served:
1. during the Korean Conflict; or
2. during the Vietnam War.
B. Request
A veteran may request a diploma on their own behalf, or a family member may make a posthumous request on behalf of a deceased veteran or service member. The high school diploma is awarded based on the veteran's knowledge and experience gained while in service, or the veteran's other relevant lived experience. The school district may require the veteran or veteran's requestor to provide evidence that the veteran was a Minnesota public school student or is a current Minnesota resident.
C. No Report Required
The school district is not required to report on diplomas issued under Minnesota Statutes, section 127A.135.
D. Assistance
The Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs and county veteran service officers may provide assistance to districts fulfilling diploma requests, including but not limited to verification of discharge paperwork.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 120B.02 (Educational Expectations and Graduation for Minnesota's
Students)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.018 (Definitions)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.021 (Required Academic Standards)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.023 (Benchmarks)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.024 (Credits)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.07 (Early Graduation)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.11 (School District Process for Reviewing Curriculum,
Instruction, and Student Achievement Goals: Striving for the Comprehensive
Achievement and Civic Readiness)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.125 (Planning for Students' Successful Transition to
Postsecondary Education and Employment; Personal Learning Plans)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.251 (Ethnic Studies Requirements)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.30 (General Requirements; Statewide Assessments)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.303 (Assessment Graduation Requirements)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.307 (College and Career Readiness)
Minn. Rules Part 3501.0660 (Academic Standards For Kindergarten through Grade
12)
Minn. Rules Parts 3501.0640-3501.0655 (Academic Standards for Language Arts)

Minn. Rules Parts 3501.0700-3501.0745 (Academic Standards for Mathematics)
Minn. Rules Parts 3501.0820 (Academic Arts Standards for Kindergarten through
Grade 12)
Minn. Rules Parts 3501.0900-3501.0955 (Academic Standards in Science)
Minn. Rules Parts 3501.1200-1210 (Academic Standards for English Language
Development)
Minn. Rules Parts 3501.1000-3501.1190 (Graduation-Required Assessment for
Diploma) (repealed Minn. L 2013, Ch. 116, Art. 2, § 22)
Minn. Stat. § 127A.135 (High School Diploma for Veterans)
Minn. Rules Parts 3501.1300-3501.1345 (Academic Standards for Social Studies)
20 U.S.C. § 6301, et seq. Every Student Succeeds Act
Cross References: RAS Equity Policy 102.1
RAS Policy 104 (School District Mission Statement)
RAS Policy 601 (School District Curriculum and Instruction Goals)
RAS Policy 614 (School District Testing Plan and Procedure)
MSBA/MASA Model Administrative procedure 615 (Testing
Accommodations, Modifications, and Exemptions for IEPs, Section 504 Plans, and
LEP Students)
RAS Policy 616 (School District System Accountability)