Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Revised: January 29, 2025
Approved: March 3, 2025
Revised: August 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
402 POLICY - DISABILITY NONDISCRIMINATION
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to provide a fair employment setting for all persons and to comply with state and federal law.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. The school district shall not discriminate against qualified individuals with disabilities because of the disabilities of such individuals in regard to job application procedures, hiring, advancement, discharge, compensation, job training, and other terms, conditions, and privileges of employment.
B. The school district shall not engage in contractual or other arrangements that have the effect of subjecting its qualified applicants or employees with disabilities to discrimination on the basis of disability. The school district shall not exclude or otherwise deny equal jobs or job benefits to a qualified individual because of the known disability of an individual with whom the qualified individual is known to have a relationship or association.
C. The school district shall make reasonable accommodations for the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified individual with a disability who is an applicant or employee, unless the accommodation would impose undue hardship on the operation of the business of the school district.
D. Any job applicant or employee wishing to discuss the need for reasonable accommodation, or other matters related to a disability or the enforcement and application of this policy, should contact the Executive Director of Human Resources (4148 Winnetka Avenue North,
New Hope, MN, 763-504-8014). This individual is the school district's appointed
ADA/Section 504 coordinator.
E. Failure to engage in the process to determine if a reasonable accommodation exists that would allow people with disabilities as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 363A.03, subdivision 12, to participate fully in employment may be an unfair discriminatory practice under the Minnesota Human Rights Act.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. Ch. 363A (Minnesota Human Rights Act)
29 U.S.C. § 794 et seq. (Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973)
42 U.S.C., 12101 (Americans with Disabilities Act)
29 C.F.R. Part 32 (Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Handicap in Programs or

Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance)
34 C.F.R. Part 104 (Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Handicap in Programs or
Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance)
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 413 (Harassment and Violence) MSBA/MASA
Model Policy 521 (Student Disability Nondiscrimination)
RAS Equity Policy 102.1