Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Adopted: October 7, 2024
Reviewed, Revised: August 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
507.5 POLICY ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE - SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICERS
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this procedure is to establish the contractual duties and training requirements of a school resource officer.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT
The school district, upon securing the services of one or more school resource officers, is committed to establishing the qualifications and duties required of these officers. Any contract for the services of a school resources officer with the school district must meet the requirements of this procedure.
III. DEFINITIONS
A. "School" means an elementary school, middle school or secondary school, as defined in
Minnesota Statutes, section 120A.05, subdivisions 9, 11, and 13.
B. "School Resource Officer" means a peace officer who is assigned to work in an elementary school, middle school, or secondary school during the regular instructional school day as one of the officer's regular responsibilities through the terms of a contract entered between the peace officer's employer and the designated school district or charter school.
IV. CONTRACTUAL DUTIES
A. A school resource officer's contractual duties with the school district shall include:
1. fostering a positive school climate through relationship building and open communication;
2. protecting students, staff, and visitors to the school grounds from criminal activity;
3. serving as a liaison from law enforcement to school officials;
4. providing advice on safety drills;
5. identifying vulnerabilities in school facilities and safety protocols;
6. educating and advising students and staff on law enforcement topics; and,
7. enforcement of criminal laws.

B. The school district may contract with a school resource officers employer for the officer to perform additional duties.
C. A school resource officer must not use force or the authority of their office solely to enforce school rules or policies or participate in the enforcement of discipline for violations of school rules.
D. Nothing in this subdivision limits any other duty or responsibility imposed on peace officers; limits the expectation that peace officers will exercise professional judgment and discretion to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the public when carrying out their duties; or creates a duty for school resource officers to protect students, staff, or others on school grounds that is different from the duty to protect the public as a whole.
V. TRAINING
A. Except as provided for in paragraphs V.B., V.C., and V.D. below, beginning September 1,
2025, a peace officer assigned to serve as a school resource officer must complete a training course that provides instruction on the learning objectives identified in Minnesota
Statutes, section 626.8482, subdivision 4 prior to assuming the duties of a school resource officer.
B. A peace officer who has completed either the School Safety Center standardized Basic
School Resource Officer Training or the National School Resource Officer Basic School
Resource Officer course prior to September 1, 2025, must complete the training mandated under paragraph V.A. above before June 1, 2027. A peace officer covered under this paragraph may complete a supplemental training course approved by the board pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes, section 626.8482, subdivision 4, paragraph (b), to satisfy the training requirement.
C. If an officer's employer is unable to provide the required training course to the officer prior to the officer assuming the duties of a school resource officer, the officer must complete the required training within six months of assuming the duties of a school resource officer.
The officer is not required to perform the duties described in Minnesota Statutes, section
626.8482, subdivision 2, paragraph (a), clause (4) or (5), until the officer has completed the required training course. The officer must review any policy adopted by the officer's employer pursuant to section 626.8482, subdivision 6 before assuming the other duties of a school resource officer and must comply with that policy.
D. An officer who is serving as a substitute school resource officer for fewer than 60 student contact days within a school year is not obligated to complete the required training or perform the duties described in Minnesota Statutes, section 626.8482 subdivision 2, paragraph (a), clause (4) or (5), but must review and comply with any policy adopted pursuant to subdivision 6 by the law enforcement agency that employs the substitute school resource officer.
E. For each school resource officer employed by an agency, the chief law enforcement the officer must maintain a copy of the most recent training certificate issued to the officer for completion of the training mandated under this section.

VI. DUTY TO IDENTIFY
A. A law enforcement officer must identify the law enforcement agency or other entity employing the individual, the individual's last name, and the individual's identification number if the individual is:
1. licensed by the Board of Peace Officer Standards and Training; or
2. an officer employed by a federally recognized Tribe, as defined in 25
United States Code, section 450b(e).
B. A law enforcement officer satisfies the requirements of Paragraph A. above if:
1. the officer wears a uniform that clearly identifies the law enforcement agency or other entity employing the officer and displays any combination of a badge, nameplate, identification patch, or other label that clearly identifies the officer's last name and identification number;
2. the officer wears body armor or a protective suit for the purposes of crowd control or participation as a member of a special weapons and tactics team, and displays any combination of a badge, nameplate, identification patch, or other label that clearly identifies the law enforcement agency or other entity employing the officer and the officer's identification number; or
3. upon request, the officer states the required information or provides a card that includes the required information.
VII. USE OF CHEMICAL IRRITANTS
The school district must provide information about the use of any chemical irritant, smoke screen, or diversionary device deployed within a building as required under Minnesota
Statutes, section 626.745.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 120A.05, subds. 9, 11, and 13 (Definitions)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.02, subd. 25 (General Powers of Independent School Districts -
School Resource Officers)
Minn. Stat. § 626.8482 (School Resource Officers; Duties; Training; Model Policy)
Cross References: RAS Policy 403 (Discipline, Suspension, and Dismissal of School District
Employees)
RAS Policy 414 (Mandated Reporting of Child Neglect or Physical or Sexual
Abuse)
RAS Policy 415 (Mandated Reporting of Maltreatment of Vulnerable Adults)
RAS Policy 506 (Student Discipline)
RAS Policy 507 (Corporal Punishment/Prone Restraint)
RAS Policy 532 (Use of Peace Officers & Crisis Teams to Remove Students with
IEPs from School Grounds

Resources: MN House of Representatives: School Resource Officers (accessed 10/02/25)
MN Department of Public Safety: School Resource Officer Training (accessed
10/02/25)
MN Department of Public Safety: FAQs for Mandated School Resource Officer
(SRO) Requirements (accessed 10/02/25)
U.S. Department of Education: FAQs on Photos and Videos under FERPA
(accessed 10/02/25)
U.S. Department of Education: School Resource Officers, School Law
Enforcement Units, and the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
(accessed 10/02/25)
U.S. Department of Education: Does FERPA distinguish between School Resource
Officers (SROs) and other local police officers who work in a school? (accessed
10/02/25)