To: School Board and Superintendent Staloch
From: Policy Committee
Date: September 1, 2026
Re: Policy Committee Report
The Policy Committee convened on August 19, 2026 to continue its work on reviewing and advancing policies. The policy committee remains committed to ensuring that policies are updated.
The policies listed below have substantive updates following the 2026 Legislative Session.
The updates below quote directly from new Minnesota laws. As such, school boards may adopt updates in a single meeting vs. the standard two meeting process pursuant to MSBA Model Policy
208.
All updates have been reviewed by the Executive Director in which the policy falls under and the
Senior Leadership team.
Our next meeting is scheduled for October 21 , 2026.
LEGISLATIVE UPDATES / POLICIES FOR FIRST READS
Policy Number
Purpose Update Description of Change and Title
402 Policy : Legislative Adds reasonable ● Added letter E under
Disability Update accommodation process General Statement of
Nondiscrimination provision enacted by the Policy
2026 Minnesota legislature.
423 Policy: Legislative Adds "grooming" ● Added #5 under letter
Update prohibition enacted by the E in General
Employee-Student
2026 Minnesota legislature. Statement of Policy
Relationships
● Updated language in section III Reporting and Investigation letter A.
507.5 Policy: School Legislative Adds provisions on duty to ● Strikethrough in
Resource Officers Update identify and chemical section V. Training irritants enacted by the letter A.
2026 Minnesota legislature. ● Added section VI: Duty
To Identify
● Added section VII: Use of Chemical Irritants
509 Policy: Legislative Aligns policy with open ● Updated language
Enrollment of Update enrollment laws Minn.Sta. throughout section III.

Nonresident 142D.08, Ch. 260A and Ch. Open Enrollment
Students 260 C; format revisions and Process reference updates are ● Updated statute included. reference in section IV.
Basis for Decisions letter A. #4.
● Language update in section IV letter B
● Updated language in section IV letter C, D, F.
● Statute Update
● Resource added
521 Policy: Student Legislative Change from AP to Policy ● Added letter E. in
Disability Update General Statement of
Nondiscrimination Adds reasonable Policy accommodation process ● Statute Update provision enacted by the
2026 Minnesota legislature.
613 Policy: Legislative Change from AP to Policy ● Removed old
Graduation Update language in letter B
Requirements Adds high school diploma under definitions with for veterans provision new updated enacted by the 2026 language
Minnesota legislature ● Updated language in
Section V. Assessment
Graduation
Requirements letter A.
and B.
● Added section IX High
School Diploma For
Veterans
● Statute Update
709 Policy: Student Legislative Adds first aid kit ● Language updates in
Transportation Update requirements Section VII: Operating
Safety Rules and Procedures, letter B. #10. b .and c.
● Statute Update
721 Policy: Legislative Adds provisions regarding ● Update to section IV:
Procurement Update thresholds for emergency General Procurement purchases by the Standards letter H # 1, superintendent/ others 2 and 3
722 Policy: Public Legislative Adds Safe at Home ● Added section IX: Safe
Data and Data Update participant data protection at Home Participants
Subjects Requests enacted by the 2026 and Data Privacy
Minnesota legislature
506 Policy: Student Annual No changes at this time.
Discipline Review