ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Business Meeting

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved August 17, 2026

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, August 3, 2026, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC).

Welcome

Call to Order/Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson (attended remotely), Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Absent: None. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Land Acknowledgement

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Brynteson moved to approve the agenda, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote.

Bond Referendum Presentaiton
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Dr. Staloch reviewed the presentation, which will be shared at various public meetings and events.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.

Long requested removal of Administrative Item: 1. Tentative Agreement - 2025-2027 Principal Contract
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda - excluding item removed for separate consideration,
Wutoh seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Tentative Agreement - 2026-2027 Principal Contract, Hillenbrand seconded.

Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote.

Unfinished Business

A. Review Draft of Superintendent Goals for 2026-27
Dr. Staloch reviewed the draft of her goals with the Board, and discussed in preparation for bringing to action at the Business Meeting on August 17, 2026

New Business

A. Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $1,614.62
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the resolution, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote.

Policy (None for this evening.)

Administrative Reports (None for this evening.)

Board Committee Reports and Board Reports

This portion of the agenda provides an opportunity for each Board member to do a brief update regarding work pertaining to their Board duties. At this evening's Listening Time, five individuals spoke regarding the following topics:
e What are your priorities?

Listening Sessions

School Board Retreat

Timing of moves for Sonnesyn, Neill, Noble, Lakeview

Lakeview Elementary Grounds

Future Events
Available on our website.

Adjournment
MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, and Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote. Meeting adjourned at 8:46 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

eS VAN bu Date: lg ld Qeh L