To: School Board Members, Superintendent Staloch
From: Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Date: September 22, 2026
RE: Review and Comment Discussion
Overview:
Under Minnesota Statues, section 123B.71, a review and comment by the Minnesota Department of Education is required before the District conducts a referendum for bonds or solicits bids for a project.
A project proposal had been submitted to MDE for review and comment identifying that the
Robbinsdale Area School District proposes to hold a referendum to address safety & security needs and enhanced academic space for programmatic growth. The referendum projects would consist of new and updated classroom space for academics, electrical, security updates and enhancements, athletic space & locker room improvements as well as food service space changes.
We included input from our community, as well as the expertise of various consultants and a community task force to arrive at the most responsible plan for our District. We will continue to encourage and support input from our community.
The referendum projects are separated into three questions that would be financed with 20-year general obligation bonds. The total amount including financing costs is $413,000,000
The Robbinsdale Area School District Board of Education has approved this review and comment document at the June 15, 2026, board meeting. The Board also approved the resolution to go to referendum and set the final amount at their July 20th Board meeting for the November 3rd ballot date.
The capital referendum questions, as drafted, would read as follows:
SCHOOL DISTRICT QUESTION 1
APPROVAL OF SCHOOL BUILDING BONDS
Shall the school board of Independent School District No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools) be authorized to issue general obligation school building bonds in an amount not to exceed
$343,000,000 to provide funds for the acquisition and betterment of school sites and facilities including, but not limited to: construction, renovation and expansion of Cooper High School; renovation of Plymouth Middle School including pool improvement; renovation of Sandburg
Middle School including the decommission and repurposing of the pool; construction, renovation, and repurposing of Armstrong High School; expansion, renovation, and/or repurposing of elementary schools; construction of a storage garage for school district vehicles and equipment; and renovation and repurposing of other district sites and facilities to align facility use with enrollment and program needs, including early childhood?
BY VOTING "YES" ON THIS BALLOT QUESTION, YOU ARE VOTING FOR A PROPERTY TAX
INCREASE.

SCHOOL DISTRICT QUESTION 2
APPROVAL OF SCHOOL BUILDING BONDS
If School District Question 1 is approved, shall the school board of Independent School District
No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools) be authorized to issue general obligation school building bonds in an amount not to exceed $17,000,000 to provide funds for the acquisition and betterment of school sites and facilities including, but not limited to: renovation and repurposing the pool area of Sandburg Middle School and construction thereon of a performing arts space; renovation and repurposing of Plymouth Middle School to house the Spanish Immersion and other district programs, and the construction of playgrounds at such site; and renovation and repurposing of Armstrong High School to house a middle school with capacity for 1,100 students, and other district-wide programs?
BY VOTING "YES" ON THIS BALLOT QUESTION, YOU ARE VOTING FOR A PROPERTY TAX
INCREASE.
SCHOOL DISTRICT QUESTION 3
APPROVAL OF SCHOOL BUILDING BONDS
If School District Question 1 and School District Question 2 are approved, shall the school board of Independent School District No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools) be authorized to issue general obligation school building bonds in an amount not to exceed $53,000,000 to provide funds for the acquisition and betterment of school sites and facilities including, but not limited to:
construction of a new four-section neighborhood elementary school at the Robbinsdale Middle
School site; and renovation and repurposing of district sites and facilities for educational programming and district-wide services?
BY VOTING "YES" ON THIS BALLOT QUESTION, YOU ARE VOTING FOR A PROPERTY TAX
INCREASE.
The District has received a positive review and comment from the Commissioner with respect to the projects.
This agenda item satisfies the statutory requirement under Minnesota Statutes, Section §123B.71, subdivision 12 of holding a public meeting to discuss the Commissioner's review and comment.
The District has published a summary of the commissioner's review and comment for the projects on September 10th in the District's legal newspaper, which is at least 48 days but not more than 70 days before the election.