To: Members of the School Board
From: Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Date: September 22, 2026
Re: 2025-2027 Tentative Agreement - Education Assistants
RECOMMENDATION:
The District Administration is recommending the approval of a two-year education assistant contract with the effective dates being July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2027.
Financial Package
● The salary increase for 2025-2026 will be 0%
● The salary increase for 2026-2027 will be 3%
● Salary increase will be retroactive back to July 1, 2026.
● Insurance increases $50/month starting September 1, 2026.
Non-Economics
The articles in red are additions or revisions to the contract.
1-3-3 Class 4 - Security Education Assistant
Supervision of Security Education Assistants shall be through a collaborative partnership between the Director of Risk Management, Director of Security and Building
Administration. Security EAs shall be required to fulfill the job duties outlined on the job description and complete twenty (20) hours of annual training which may happen during workshop week. New security EAs will be required to attend forty (40) hours of training within the first year and up to 20 hours of training may be done during workshop week. The 20 hours of annual training does not prohibit security education assistants from utilizing the 16 hours of professional development in 5-8-1.
1-7 Gender Neutrality
It is the intent of the parties that this agreement be gender neutral and any reference or designation to gender is intended to include all genders.
1-8 Domestic Partner and Family Configuration
It is the intent of the parties that this agreement reflect the full array of family configurations. The terms "partner" and "spouse" are understood to include "husband,"
"wife," and "domestic partner" but are not exclusive of other partnerships. Immediate family as used within this agreement means "spouse", or "partner" "parents", "siblings",
"children or dependants", "grandparents", "grandchildren", "in-law relatives", or a family member living in the immediate household of the employee. The terms "children", or
"dependants", shall mean the biological, adopted, or foster child, stepchild, legal ward, or a child to whom the employee stands in loco parentis, regardless of age or dependency status. The term "parent" shall mean a biological, adoptive, or foster parent, stepparent, or legal guardian of an employee or the employee's partner or a person who stood in

loco parentis when the employee was a minor child."
5-1 Holidays
Education Assistants working twelve (12) hours or more per week will receive seven (7)
paid holidays per year as follows: If the school district starts school prior to Labor Day,
Labor Day will be a paid holiday. If school starts after Labor day, Memorial Day will be a paid holiday. Fall Professional Conference Day (usually the third Thursday and Friday in
October), Thanksgiving Day, the Friday after Thanksgiving, Martin Luther King Day (third
Monday in January as long as it is a non-student contact day for teachers), Presidents'
Day, Monday after Easter, and Memorial Day. Part-time employees will be paid for holidays on a prorated basis, based on the number of hours assigned per week.
5-10 Building Schedules
Specific Education Assistant schedules will be determined by their
Principal/Director/Supervisor. Education Assistants shall not be assigned to professional duties performed by teachers. In the event of an emergency, the building principal may temporarily assign Education Assistants to duties other than their regular duties.
To provide continuity to Education Assistant will be provided a schedule of daily tasks that includes a duty-free, state-mandated thirty (30)-minute unpaid lunch break and two
(2) paid fifteen (15)-minute breaks. In conjunction with an Education Assistant Supervisor,
Building Leadership shall review and approve Education Assistant Building Schedules within the first month of the start of the new school year.
5.16 Technology
The district shall provide Education Assistants with the technology, equipment and system access required to perform assigned job duties, including but not limited to communication,training. Education Assistants decline a device they must sign a waiver.
5-9-1 Professional Learning
Education Assistants may use Professional Learning hours at their discretion. The District shall maintain and provide a list of pre-approved Professional Learning opportunities on schoology, including online offerings and Community Education courses.
An Education Assistant who has exhausted their sixteen (16) hours of Professional Learning and wishes to participate in additional Professional Learning outside of the regular workday, directly related to their position, may do so with prior approval from the Building Principal or Program
Director. Upon approval, all additional Employees using Professional Learning hours shall be compensated at the Education Assistant's regular hourly rate."
6-3-1 Notice of Layoff
Notwithstanding job title seniority, an Education Assistant who is an approved and actively participating apprenticeship candidate may be retained out of seniority order when necessary to

maintain continuity, compliance, or viability of an approved apprenticeship program.
Appendix B Vacation
A 52 week Adventure Club Education Assistant hired after July 1, 2026 will be eligible for two weeks of paid vacation. Vacation schedules are subject to the approval of the
Adventure Club Site Supervisor in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Adventure Club. All 52 week Adventure Club Education Assistants hired prior to
June 30, 2026 will maintain their vacation eligibility based on the contract. Education
Assistants with zero to ten (0-10) years of service shall receive two (2) weeks of paid vacation. Education Assistants with ten (10) or more years of service shall receive three (3)
weeks of paid vacation and Education Assistants with twenty (20) or more years of service will receive four (4) weeks of paid vacation. Vacation schedules are subject to the approval of the Adventure Club Site Supervisor in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Adventure Club.