To: School Board
From: Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Date: September 22, 2026
RE: Listening Time District Comparisons
In an effort to provide comparison data regarding how other districts offer opportunities for their staff, students, parents and community members to have their voices heard by the Board, I sent the following questions to area superintendents requesting responses:
1. Do you allow for listening time/public comment outside of a regular board meeting? If so, for how long, any topic restrictions, is this live-streamed or recorded.
2. Do you have public comment as part of a board meeting? If so, how often, how long, topic restrictions, livestreamed, recorded?
3. Anything else that might be helpful as the board considers a request from stakeholders to livestream?
Responses received are as follows:
District (1) Do you allow for (2) Do you have public comments (2) Logistics:
listening time/public as part of a board meeting?
When, comment outside of What is the process?
livestream?
meetings?
Brooklyn No Yes - 1X per month at business Record and post
Center meeting business meetings
● 3 minutes or chair discretion if more
● any topic
Edina No Yes - 1X per month at regular mtg Livestreamed and recorded
● 3 minutes each
● No more than 15 people
● If same topic, ask people to combine
Mahtomedi Before a regular meeting we have comments to the board
Minnetonka Yes - 1X per month during regular Livestreamed meeting and recorded
● Only speak to a topic on the "Community agenda comment"

● 3 minutes
Study session
Yes - study session not recorded or
● Topic can be anything livestreamed
● 3 minutes
North St. Paul No Yes - 1X per month at reg meeting Livestreamed
● 30 minute maximum "Public
● 3 minutes per person comment"
Osseo No Yes - 1X per month during regular Livestreamed meeting
"Public
● 3 minutes comment"
● If too many on a topic, will group together
Richfield No Yes - 1X per month only at second Livestreamed meeting of month and recorded
● 3 minutes
South No listening sessions Yes - 1X per month (second Livestreamed
Washington meeting), allow comments to the
"Comments to board.
the board"
● 3 minutes
● Maximum time of 10 minutes per topic
West St. Paul Yes - 1X per month for Yes
45 minutes
1X per month at 2nd meeting which is not livestreamed or
● No topic recorded restrictions except can't include
● No overall time limit or private data restrictions other than data
● Not recorded or privacy livestreamed
● 10 minutes per topic
● Only 2 board
● 3 minutes per speaker members and supt
● Called "comments to the attend board" not public comment
● More conversational