BELIEVE. BELONG. BECOME.
Welcome to the Robbinsdale School Board
Listening Time
Your input is welcome and valued!
Listening Time provides an opportunity for the school district community to present comments, concerns, questions and ideas to representatives of the school board and district administration.
Respectful communication is essential to ensure full understanding of each topic presented.
Listening Time begins at 6:00 p.m. and ends at or before 6:50 p.m. on the first school board meeting of most months. The School Board Facilitator will allow no more than three minutes per speaker to ensure all topics are heard.
Procedure for Participation in the Listening Time:
★ Complete the "Speaker Information Form" available online, and are accepted until 3:00 p.m.
on the day of Listening Time. After 3:00 p.m., please fill out a paper form and give it to the
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board to add to the list of speakers prior to the start of Listening Time..
★ Topics will be heard in the order in which they are received.
★ Speakers should ensure information is accurate and concise.
★ Due to School Board 207 AP: Public Hearings, section III. Procedures, under C. Public
Participation, Number 5. - "Personal attacks by anyone addressing the school board are unacceptable. Persistence in such remarks by an individual shall terminate that person's privilege to address the school board."
★ Individual or group time will be no longer than three minutes. In the case of a large number of attendees, the Board will limit comments to 2-3 designated spokespersons per topic.
★ Keep topic information accurate and concise.
★ The Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board will distribute appropriate documents you would like to share.
★ If the School Board facilitator or an administrator determines follow-up action is necessary, a response will be provided following deeper inquiry as needed for a response.
★ Once all those seeking to speak have spoken, the facilitator will announce the opportunity to speak to the audience, and remind everyone of the form completion request. If no other speakers come forward, the facilitator will end the Listening Session and declare it closed.
We appreciate your input.
The Robbinsdale Area Schools Board of Education
June 2025