Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
September 22, 2026

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

AHS Senior a National Merit Semifinalist
Congratulations, Evelyn Johnson!
● One of more than 16,000
semifinalists nationwide
● Represents less than 1% of U.S.
high school seniors
● Now eligible to advance to finalist consideration and compete for a National Merit
Scholarship

The Quill Earns National Recognition
Cooper High School's student newspaper
● First Class rating from the
National Scholastic Press
Association
● Marks of Distinction for coverage and content and presentation
● International Second Place
Award from the Quill and Scroll
Society
● 7th consecutive year earning
Quill and Scroll recognition

AHS senior Named Academic All-American
Congratulations, Khloe Lim!
● National Speech & Debate
Association Academic
All-American
● Fewer than 1% of students nationwide earn the distinction
● Recognizes academics, leadership, service and integrity
● 11th consecutive year an Rdale student has earned the honor

Connecting Generations at Forest
Forest Elementary + Broadway
Court Pen Pal Program
● Nearly 10 years of intergenerational friendship
● Students and volunteers exchange handwritten letters throughout the school year
● Builds authentic writing and communication skills while creating meaningful community connections
● This year's program begins in
October

Informing Our Community
Since our last Board meeting:
● Community, school and municipal presentations across the district
● Conversations and Q&A with hundreds of community members
● Referendum information available at every school
● Early voting information mailed to every residential and business address
● Continued updates shaped by questions and community feedback

Building Better Together

REIMAGINE
Robbinsdale Area Schools
BUILDING
BETTER
TOGETHER
VOTE
NOVEMBER 3

2026 Bond
Referendum
Putting Students First: Building a
Predictable, Intentional Path Forward
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent

Our mission is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

WE ARE ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS
A multilingual and
Serving the dynamic district with seven
9,500 students:
communities of:
● Brooklyn
92 languages spoken
Center
● Brooklyn Park
Students with a wide
● Crystal range of needs and
● Golden Valley strengths:
● New Hope
26% receive special
● Plymouth education services
● Robbinsdale
58% qualify for educational benefits
2% are experiencing homelessness
Building Better Together

WE'VE LEARNED, WE'VE LISTENED, WE HAVE A PLAN
● We Have Dug Into the Data: Over the past two years, we've dug into our financial, operational, and academic data.
● We Have Been Honest: Not all of the news has been good. We have kept you informed along the way.
● We Have Listened: Community feedback has been loud and clear, you want a trusted student-centered path forward.
● We Have a Plan: District leadership has crafted a predictable path forward that delivers long-term stability and educational excellence.
Building Better Together

THE TRUTH ABOUT OUR CURRENT REALITY
Decisions outside of a long-term plan over many years have created our current reality:
● Statutory Operating Debt (SOD)
● Excess number of buildings
● Inequitable program offerings
● Declining student enrollment
● Low academic achievement
● Nearly 50 years without a bond referendum
● $140M in LTFM needs
● Reduced $26M in the past 3 yrs.
Building Better Together

1971
HOW DID
28,000
(29 school buildings)
WE GET
2018
12,546
HERE?
(17 school buildings)
2025
10,326
(17 school buildings)
Declining
Student
Enrollment
Forecast 2034
9,287
Building Better Together

HOW DID
WE GET
HERE?
Unassigned
Fund Balance
% of Revenue or
Expenses
Building Better Together

THE TRUTH ABOUT OUR CURRENT REALITY
Decisions outside of a long-term plan over many years have created our current reality:
● SOD Budgeting
○ Forced to balance revenue and expenses
○ Forced to account for ongoing rollup costs due to employee contracts and inflationary factors ($2-3M)
● Reduced $26M in the past 3 yrs.
○ Buildings
○ Programs
○ Transportation
Student
Transportation
Facilities
Staffing
Programming
○ Staffing
Building Better Together

REIMAGINE
Robbinsdale Area Schools
000
RE
MAGINE
VISION
2030
RDALE
Team
•Survey Community Engagement
BUILDING
BETTER
TOGETHER
VOTE
3
NOVEMBER

WE ARE FALLING BEHIND
If we stay on our current path, we cannot provide students with the opportunities and experiences they want, need, and deserve.

Investments Made By Neighboring Districts
Our Neighbors
Have Made
Significant
Investments in
Facilities
LTFM Alone
Amount of Bond
Cannot Get Us
Referendum to Where We
Need to Be
Bond
Referendum Plus
Inflations
Building Better Together

BUILDING TRUST AND A PLAN
FOR THE FUTURE
Putting Students First:
Building a Predictable,
Intentional Path Forward

Building a Predictable Path Forward
With one high school we can have:
● Updated learning environments with expanded career and technical education spaces, and specialized areas for student support services
● Opportunities and experiences our students want, need, and deserve that are consistent with neighboring school districts
● Critical safety and security enhancements, including single-user,
ADA-accessible restrooms
(Continued onto next slide)
Building Better Together

Building a Predictable Path Forward
Across the district we can have:
● Schools designed for flexible active learning
● Cutting-edge arts and innovation spaces for programming
● Efficient and equitable neighborhood elementary schools
● A regulation competition pool for our
Lower athletes
Operational
● Lower operational costs and prioritized
Costs funding for classrooms
Building Better Together

Maximizing Value - Extending the
Path Forward
Across the district we can:
● Create performing arts space at both middle schools
● Guarantees opportunity to eliminate leased facility costs
Further Reduce
● Sell unused properties
Operational Costs
● Further reduce operational costs
Building Better Together

New Elementary School
● New neighborhood elementary school in the City of Robbinsdale
● Community Education and gym located at the new elementary site
● Determine the best location for district-wide services and programming
Building Better Together

INVESTING IN A STRONGER FUTURE
Putting Students First: Building a Predictable,
Intentional Path Forward
$343M $17M $53M
Approximately
Approximately Approximately
$15/month increase
$2/month increase $8/month increase
If approved, the bond referendum would result in the above estimated monthly tax impacts for a home valued at $340,200
Building Better Together

WHAT IF THE BOND
REFERENDUM DOESN'T PASS?
There are only four ways to reduce our budget.
Transportation
Student
Staffing Facilities
Programming

WITHOUT THE BOND:
ALL OPTIONS FOR CUTS ARE ON THE TABLE
REDUCE
Art
Sports
Class Sizes
Maximize building capacity
Music Staff
Walking
INCREASE
Distance to
School
Building Better Together

TRUE OR FALSE - WE WANT TO BE CLEAR
● TRUE - We will still need to make cuts as part of SOD.
● TRUE - There is an annual board-approved LTFM tax impact to support building maintenance. This is not new.
● TRUE - The Board approved a 10-year $140M LTFM plan. If the Bond Referendum passes, the previous approved LTFM
will be lower.
● TRUE - Buildings will be sold after the referendum vote when we have more clarity about the district's future.
Building Better Together

TRUE OR FALSE - WE WANT TO BE CLEAR
● TRUE - The Bond Referendum is about student opportunities, academics, achievement, the student experience and keeping operational dollars in the classroom.
It is not just about buildings.
Building Better Together

Discover
Re)Discover
(Re)D
R
R
2026-27 PRIORITIES
Rdale
(RE) DISCOVER RDALE Rdale
A
Academic Achievement
MISSION DISTRICT VISION
Academic core/universal instruction (Tier 1) as the foundation of a multi-tiered system ofsupports (MTSS) will be strengthened for students in all programs
Robbinsdale Area Schools is committed to
The mission of throughout the district to ensure the following:
ensuring every student graduates career,
.
Robbinsdale Area Aguaranteed and viable, culturally relevant curriculum articulated skilled trades and college ready.
Access to high-quality instruction
Schools is to
Theimplementation of Rdale Portrait of Our Learner
We believe each student has limitless inspire and possibilities and we strive to ignite the
B
Student Engagement and Wellness educate all learners potential in every student.
A social-emotional learning (SEL) curriculum as the Tier 1 foundation of a muti-
PLAN
PLAN
to develop their tiered system of supports (MTSS) for all students will be reviewed, and an high intellectual performance from
We expect implementation plan will be developed inclusive of the following:
potential all our students.
unique
Create and implement consistent district-wide systems and practices aswellas provide and positively training and coaching to supportstaffand students
We arecommitted to ensuring an equitable
Use data to monitor and improve student connections and sense ofbelonging, attendance; contribute to their and respectful educational experience for behavior, and sense ofsafetyand security every student, family and staff member.
community.
Collaboration and Partnerships
G
Strategies and plans to increase engagement and strengthen trust,
PRIORITY OUTCOMES
STRATEGIC THEMES
communication, and partnership across Robbinsdale Area Schools will be implemented to contribute to student success through the following:
District prioritywork and goals focused on GROUNDED IN EQUITY
Increase two-way communication with, and responsive to, students,families,staff and strategicthemes will help achieve our community through districtand school communication plansand feedback loopsthat
Improve achievement for students mission for each student.
TEGIC inform practices andimprovements ofcolor
Expand the inclusion and influence of multiple perspectives and voices asthe foundation
Academic Achievement
All students are ready for school
A
ofamulti-tiered system ofsupports (MTSS) through authenticfamilyengagement
Every child reading at or above opportunities atall schools grade-level
Academic and social-emotional
B Student Engagement and
D
Staff Investment and Impact growth in middle grades
Wellness
Foster a welcoming, inclusive, and accountable culture where all staff feelvalued,
Student engagement in school and supported, and empowered to contribute to studentsuccess by implementing the learning following:
Collaboration and Partnerships
C
Student support from families to
Invest in and support staffby providing professional development, clear expectations, learn and achieve to operationalize rolesand responsibilities and consistent documented systems
Clear path and readiness for career,
Align alldepartment continous improvement plans and school improvement plans to
STRATEGIC
Staff Investment and Impact
D and life ensure shared responsibility and accountability for improved student and district college outcomes
Approved by the School Board on July 20, 2026
Become.
Believe.
Believe. Belong. Become. Belong.

TRUE OR FALSE - WE WANT TO BE CLEAR
● FALSE - A NO vote means my school will stay open. This plan forward isn't about individual schools, it is about a district-wide intentional plan that keeps student needs at the center.
● TRUE - Our families want what is best for their kids, they have choices. We want to be their school district of choice.
Building Better Together

Back Side
Front Side

WHAT IS THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT?
● Also on the ballot this November is the Permanent
School Fund Constitutional Amendment
● The fund supports public school districts across the state.
● There is no tax impact to this amendment, it's only impact is to increase funds to school districts.
● Choosing to skip this vote = a No Vote.
● This is money that will help our schools.
Building Better Together

Putting Students First:
Building a Predictable,
Intentional Path Forward
Strong Schools = Strong Communities

Oct 7 Oct 22 Oct 28
Sept 9 Sept 23
6:30 PM
6:30 PM 7:00 PM
7:00 PM 6:30 PM
Cooper HS
Armstrong HS Forest
SEA Cooper HS
Talk & Tour
Talk & Live Elementary
Elementary Talk, Tour, &
Stream School
School Live Stream
Talk
Talk

BOND LANGUAGE
● Also on the ballot this November is the Permanent
School Fund Constitutional Amendment
● The fund supports public school districts across the state.
● There is no tax impact to this amendment, it's only impact is to increase funds to school districts.
● Choosing to skip this vote = a No Vote.
● This is money that will help our schools.
Building Better Together

Why is Robbinsdale unique?
● We have too many buildings
● In order to maximize our buildings we would need to change grade configurations
● Our neighboring districts have invested in their schools, but we haven't
● Our buildings as they are currently will not allow us to reduce without adjusting to 4 section schools
● Our buildings and programs at each school are not equitable
● Need vs. wants - this is a referendum based on need.
Free up operating costs so we the flexibility to:
Building Better Together

Building Better Together J DES p>

Official Ballot State General Election Ballot

ude
State General Election Ballot Ba ccc ech aad
Henoee County, Minnesota aetna are jovember 3, 2026 i RR css
To vote, compltey film tha vara} nant tour choices) the Wis: . School District Qi Court of A 4th District Court
Constitutional School District Offices _ B k S d 'ecependart Schoo! Ont No. 281 Judge ¥; Court of Appeal Judge 28 Diairiet Court
A a rela ac ide Seen ts ements vont Bs
Faire to ven on a conathitoral poe renee eee shee ie mes bE

amacdrment wil have tho sua affct "Ya Tes Fae a vaing no ca te amanamont Kath Hammareeng

'School District Question 2 mene oe

mesetconns | © Aeteny ncn - :
arsine, vat ot Shoot Bung Banas [208 Caan aA Qa cau

ond Yes, fn at queaton. To wate D2 Brynteson SEES Ratha Bond Todd. Falinan
Senmaerericnantd 5, | man aaiey Saitesceabaweas | = -
-_ Senrenet one, ey
Ueno bins Rages lacing Ranang Bc DUN] ° Ket un weer se aan | 5 cama | - "RS pete

woe ace Le = ion paves hen Shallthe Minnwsow Corasiusan be J pit Jeanna Cochran "lennifarlaon
Spas saan Senaoenes ert ee nom wean

stigtsstsouel art tome ictal ad

font sctoa tna wars vate a areca
Knieatngpca soee aance Seen talas Raines ini

'eiPecut slung iedisdual come oF corastructon thereon af a pestoreing Juige 15 = Court of Appeals Sodge 32> Diainet Court jeter Oe unr Oe

Property taxes, ftctive ty 120277 Sts space. rengvaton ans A
'utponirg of Pymmour dca Kava Moet Maram te
Schot io Rowse he Spanish tome tonaen imnmarsion and cher dict frogroma, and fia constuction of
Hiaypraunds at ach sta: and - f -
= satin sad ene Judge 18 Court of Appeals edge 36 - Diairiet Court a 'iter 'efor ore

County Offices School District Questions eS ae Jabal J. Hans ah Wet

Yes

No 4th District Court
School District Question 1 'Judge | - Deawiet Court bets ter Ore

By vorNa "ves" ON Ties : hail sone 'Approval of Schoo! Building Bonds NES" ON THs waa Wa omeriane be Pos Shale schoo boar f eapendert Wg FOR A PROPERTY TAK :
near Sato Damat no 261 ured mai oa Schoc) bo a | District Question 3 i Gosek Sy hi

Codie Pe fgankral cbigation school bukding

Front Side --- ee -

Damanna Vat

Se iearaseaa tae tania on geaes Tone age
Soa see

smears £ School Distt Question 4 ant
Sarl Schawee are 7 Schoet Dawe Quast 2 ara a Tore Rivers Pak Gomeiaioner | and exnsn Conoar Heh seprred, eral fa school ae aang hack reexaton of Pymoth ifessndaat Sunou Dems No 284 'Tadoe 7 ict Court sa Demuth and eter Ore iiida Sercal wean boo (Rebbradal Area Sorc0b| bs =
Taye \mgrovmere revatio ot Sandburg ia tgaton | - Saag Ds Kan ra

eee, roura ane Deda Madory ne my
Sattar vcudng but rot ited 1
'epurpanng of skmerary shook eravucton of shaw but-secton tan ef a sterapa ava fr faugibarrcd wlamarsary schoo a
City Office: Shoal sind whales a Ha'Retonadaa Midd School sb
Se varcvaton and aguroueg
Gist ahve ad facaifes
Sducatonal srogrammeig and
Stvictwisa sardas?

Ke Coyut
'Settay 8. Mtr Yeo sss "Fudge 19 Cartie Ryan Gala
Duane Maupin No over

Darvete Pam

BY VOTING "YES" ON THIS =
a i 8Y VOTING "YES" ON THaS
Vora ron A PROPERTY TAK BALLOT QUESTION. YOU ARE Fadge 87. Diaiiat Court

bah YOTING FOR A PROPERTY TAX Tadge 20 basil Court "ania W Roding

'etter caine rae Thariad 7 rans