Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Oct. 5, 2026

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Orange Shirt Day Remembrance Walk
● Sept. 30 • West Medicine Lake
Park
● 65+ students, families, staff and community members
● Honoring boarding school
Survivors and remembering the children who never made it home
● Featured by Sun Post and MPR
News

Zachary Lane Garden in the Spotlight
Zachary Lane's school garden selected for the 2027 Hennepin
County Master Gardener Learning
Garden Tour
● One of just 10 gardens selected across Hennepin County
● Garden, Grow Lab and Junior
Master Gardener program provide hands-on learning for students
● Tour: July 10, 2027

Celebrating Some Special Cooper Alumni
Cooper welcomed alumni back to celebrate its 2026 Hall of Fame Class
Distinguished Service
● Heidi Tabor Myers '77 • Dan
Terhaar '79
Athletics Hall of Fame
● Ryan Collins '94 • Malik Rucker
'13 • Andy Dubisar '15
Honoring the lasting connection between our graduates, our schools and the Rdale community

Great Rdale Get Together: Oct. 14
Before the Armstrong/Cooper annual rivalry football game, all are invited to the Great Rdale Get
Together!
● 4:30-5:45 p.m. Wednesday, Oct.
14 at Plymouth Middle School
● Free food, music and community connections
● Before the Armstrong vs.
Cooper football game
● One district. One community.
One great get together.

Informing Our Community
Since our last Board meeting:
● Continued Building Better Together presentations and community Q&A
● Community presentation and Cooper
High School tour
● Conversations with volunteers, families, civic groups and school communities
● Ongoing communication shaped by community questions and feedback
● Continued presence in schools, classrooms and community events

What happens to LTFM if the referendum passes?
Does the referendum get added on top of our LTFM
needs?
● No. The district would continue to have LTFM needs, but the amount would decrease.
● Today: approximately $140 million in identified long-term maintenance needs.
● Some of those projects would instead be completed as part of larger bond-funded renovations.
● Under current planning, passage of Questions 2 and 3
would reduce remaining identified LTFM needs to approximately $80-90 million.

What about claims of wasteful spending on buildings?
● FAIR Pilgrim Lane: The repeated claim of a $33 million renovation is false
○ 2016 financing associated with the building addition was approximately $1.94 million
● FAIR Crystal: The building has not closed to students-
Highview and RVA students attend school there today
● The upstairs, where ESC staff will temporarily be located, was not recarpeted
● Facility work in spaces serving students is part of regular LTFM maintenance and stewardship

What happens to facilities we no longer need?
● Currently offline: Education Service Center,
Robbinsdale Middle School, Noble and Sonnesyn
Elementary Schools
● Additional facilities could become available as the long-term plan is implemented
● The district will evaluate properties for sale, reuse or other disposition
● Timing depends in part on the referendum and the district's resulting facility needs
● Potential sale proceeds are not assumed as a funding source for referendum construction

What is the anticipated timeline if the referendum were to pass?

What is the district focused on:
academics, finances or facilities?
● Students: Strong instruction, achievement, opportunities and support
● Staff: Effective learning environments and resources to serve students
● Finances: Recover from SOD and create a sustainable operating model
● Facilities: Right-size an aging footprint and plan for long-term needs
● These priorities are interconnected-not competing

Oct 7 Oct 22 Oct 28
6:30 PM
6:30 PM 7:00 PM
Cooper HS
Armstrong HS Forest
Talk & Tour
Talk & Live Elementary
Stream School
Talk

REIMAGINE

Robbinsdale Area Schools

BUILDING
BETTER
TOGETHER

NS

VOTE
NOVEMBER 3

MM 1g

Mn"

aM
4)