To: School Board Directors
Re: School Resource Officers
Date: Monday, July 8, 2024
School Resource Officer Contract Update for the 24-25 school year
● Purpose: To discuss the duties of School Resource Officers (SROs) based on new MN Law and New MSBA SRO Policy 507.5
● Goal: Ensure clarity and understanding of the SROs' functions for the 24-25 school year.
7 Duties and additional language that must be included in the SRO contract for 24-25 SY
The SRO(s) will provide the followings services at the School:
Duties: (a) A school resource officer's contractual duties with a school district or charter school shall include:
(1) fostering a positive school climate through relationship building and open communication;
(2) protecting students, staff, and visitors to the school grounds from criminal activity;
(3) serving as a liaison from law enforcement to school officials;
(4) providing advice on safety drills;
(5) identifying vulnerabilities in school facilities and safety protocols;
(6) educating and advising students and staff on law enforcement topics; and
(7) enforcement of criminal laws.
(b) A school district or charter school may contract with a school resource officer's employer for the officer to perform additional duties to those described in paragraph (a).
(c) A school resource officer must not use force or the authority of their office solely to enforce school rules or policies or participate in the enforcement of discipline for violations of school rules.
(d) Nothing in this subdivision limits any other duty or responsibility imposed on peace officers; limits the expectation that peace officers will exercise professional judgment and discretion to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the public when carrying out their duties; or creates a duty for school resource officers to protect students, staff, or others on school grounds that is different from the duty to protect the public as a whole.

Consider keeping in the following duties:(included in 23-24 contract)
A. E.To the extent possible and consistent with other responsibilities, the SRO will wear appropriate civilian attire while working at the School.
B. F. Speak to and provide curriculum support for classrooms on age appropriate subjects to present to School students as requested by School administration.
C. G.It is required of Independent School District 281 to have any School Resource Officer participate in school diversion efforts, which are in alignment with our District Discipline Policy.
Conclusion
● Summary:
○ The new School Resource Officer MSBA policy 507.5 will be reviewed by the Policy
Committee and brought forward for board approval.
○ The new contract clearly defines the essential duties and expectations for SROs based on the changes in MN Law.
● SRO Contract Timeline:
○ July 8, 2024: Work session
○ July 22, 2024: Non Action
○ August 5, 2024: Action