DISTRICT 284

g
8
F
5
Z

Planning Today for a Successful Tomorrow

;

ROBBINSDALE

area school ACTION PLAN

Priority: Maximize resources and demonstrate financial accountability
Goal: Create a financial advisory council

ADMIRATION OF THE PROBLEM

e District financial managment was questioned during the levy campaign.

e School district financial rules and regulations are complicated.

e School district accounting and reporting methods are difficult to understand by those familiar with for-profit entities.

® The general community lacks understanding that a budget is a "plan," rather than an absolute, and the fact that a budget is inherently flexible.

® School districts use "fund accounting" which consists of multiple fund divisions (e.g., general fund, community education fund, food service fund), each subject to its own prescribed rules and regulations.

GOAL

Create a financial advisory council to evaluate the district's economic conditions, develop future budget assumptions, review revenue and expenditure projections, make recommendations to the school board and develop consumer-oriented presentations.

Vi.

OBJECTIVES/ACTION STEPS

Establish bylaws for the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory
Council including council membership guidelines by July 2008 using a subcommittee of the school board and district administration.

District administration submits bylaws to the school board for approval by
July 2008.

District administration cails for applications to the council by July 2008.

Task force reviews applications, conducts interviews, and appoints council members by August 2008.

District administration compiles information packets for the council members.

School board treasurer convenes first meeting and establishes a future meeting schedule by August 2008.

EVALUATION OF THE GOAL

Did the financial advisory council:

Thoroughly examine and understand the district's economic conditions?
Develop reasonable future budget assumptions?

Use a financial planning model to develop reasonable revenue and expenditure projections?

Make sound and timely recommendations to the school board?
Develop consumer-oriented financial data presentations for the public?