District Cycle of
Improvement:
2025-26 Strategic
Priority Work
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Board Work Session
May 19, 2025

R
ROBBINSDALE System of Continuous Improvement
Area Schools
Shared Leadership Model, Strategic Plan and Operational Plan
R
ROBBINSDALE
AreaSchools
District Continuous Improvement
(Re) Discover Rdale Strategic Plan agenda and working document
School Board goals,
District Strategic Priority Work
District Balanced Scorecard
Outcomes grounded in equity (in scorecard as metrics)
Strategic Themes
Effective Instruction
Academic Achievement for Student-Centered
Student Engagement and Wellness
Collaboration and Partnerships
Personalized
Learning
Staff
Investment and Impact
Department Continuous
Professional Learning and Development
Improvement Plans (DCIPS)
Professional
Learning
School Improvement
Communities (PLCs) Plans (SIPs)
July 16, 2024

September 13, 2024

Questions?

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

' ie <citl H iV : SS
ie ISCOVER RDALE 4-25 PRIORITIES

MISSION DISTRICT VISION

The mission of Robbinsdale Area Schools is committed to

i ensuring every student gradual
RobbinsdaleArea articulated skied trades and colle
Schools is to

inspire and Ox

educate all learners

ta NN prely We expect high intellectual performance from unique potential allour student

and positively , :
: : We are committed to ensuring an equitable contribute to their and respectful educational experience for community. every student, family and staff member

Academic Achievement
+ Enhance cultural relevance of curriculum for students
* Enhance an equitable learning system from early childhood to adults
* Deepen preparation for life, college and career

@& Student Engagement and Wellness
* Improve student-staff connection
+ Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety

Collaboration and Partnerships
+ Strengthen mutual communication and responsiveness with all stakeholders
« Expand equitable inclusion and influence of student, family, staff, and community voice

STRATEGIC THEMES

trict priority work and goals focused on itegic themes will help achieve our mission for each student,

PRIORITY OUTCOMES
GROUNDED IN EQUITY

i
|
|
|
I
| + improve achievement for students
| ofcolor
'Academic Achievement |» allstudents are ready for school
| + Every child reading at or above
| grade-level
|
I
I
|
|
I
|
|
|
|
I

(BO Student Engagement and

Wellness

'Academic and social-emotional growth in middle grades

Student engagement in school and learning

Student support from families to learn and achieve

Clear path and readiness for career, college and life

& Staff Investment and Impact

+ Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive, and welcoming

+ Increase consistency and accountability for common district practices

Collaboration and Partnerships

STRATEGIC PLAN

Zz
<
-
ae
Y
O
Lu
IE
<L
ag kK
Y

Ox Staff Investment and Impact

Believe. Belong. Become. Believe. Belong. Become.

\

'September 13, 2024

) 3 I pee prenrse5)

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

ROBBINSDALE - -
Area Schools 2025-26 Strategic Priority Work

THEME A: Academic Achievement
Enhance cultural relevance of curriculum for students
© Expand the Science of Reading programming through continued staff training and the implementation of a new K-5 English Language Arts curriculum.
© Expand the implementation of Culturally and Linguistically Responsive Teaching to include all non-licensed and K-5 staff.
Enhance an equitable learning system from early childhood to adults
© Implement with fidelity an effective teaching framework focused on student engagement and purpose.
¢ Deepen preparation for life, college, and career
> Continue to build and grow RPathways through certifications, programming, and student participation in dual credit and concurrent enrollment courses.
> Expand the use of Xello to support middle and high school students in planning.

THEME B: Student Engagement and Wellness
Improve student-staff connection
© Maintain the BARR programming strength at two high schools and explore the expansion of the program into the middle schools.
> Increase the number of staff trained on the Catalyst framework and explore the expansion of the program into all K-8 sites.
> Continue to implement and strengthen Restorative Practices throughout the district.
Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety
> Strengthen systems and structures at the building level supporting student's feeling of social and emotional as well as physical safety.
> Continue to grow a comprehensive crisis management and safety plan.

THEME C: Collaboration and Partnership
¢ Strengthen mutual communication and responsiveness with all stakeholders
© Increase and streamline the cascade of communications to families, staff and our community.
© Expand equitable inclusion and influence of student, family, staff, and community voices
© Establish additional events and activities, such as family engagement events, in response to the needs and interests of our stakeholders.
> Elevate the voice of all students, including the impact of the Youth Council and other student leadership groups.

THEME D: Staff Investment and Impact e Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive, and welcoming
© Develop and implement a systemic onboarding process at the district and site level for all employees to improve clarity of roles, success and retention.
© Increase consistency and accountability for common district practices
> Develop and implement operating procedures to provide clarity and expectations in standard districtwide practices.
May 16,2025

uz

ROBBINSDALE

'Area Schools