Superintendent
Mid-Year Review and Update
Dr. Teri Staloch
January 21, 2025
1

Purpose
The superintendent's goals and the standards are stated and evidence of progress or growth to date is described. The school board then provides overall comments.
-A Goals-and Standards-Based Superintendent Evaluation: A Resource for
School Board Members and Superintendents pg. A-3

Outcomes
Board Members will...
● review how we started together as a school board and superintendent;
● be provided context and a brief summary of progress made on goals as part of the superintendent mid-year evaluation; and
● have an opportunity to seek clarification on any of the mid-year evaluation materials.
4

Transformational Purpose
Statement
"I lead to inspire, empower and develop others to thrive so that we can create life chances, equitable outcomes and a sense of belonging for all learners through trust, service, authenticity and love." - Teri Staloch
5

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

School Board
Governance Professional
Development Retreat
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
July 19-20, 2024

Beginning Our Journey
Together as a School
Board and
Superintendent

Leadership Matters
● Who do we want to be as leaders of Rdale?
● What do we want people to say about us as leaders?
● What does that mean for how we show up every day and with every interaction with ourselves and with others?

Needs for Success
Superintendent's Perspective:
● Excellence in Governance, Excellence in Management, and Consultation:
Clear roles and responsibilities
● Trust:
Fundamental to our sense of safety, autonomy and dignity as human beings and integral to our relationships. (sincerity, reliability, competence and care)
● Student-Centered, Mission-Driven, Data-Informed Decision Making
● Communication, and Work Flow Protocols:
Expectations clear and followed by board members and staff (proactive vs. reactive)
● Expectations for the Role (and use of time) of Superintendent:
Support to 10,327 students; leadership to 1,700 staff; visibility, accessibility, leadership and engagement in 20+ schools/programs and throughout 7 cities, board engagement, state and local educational organization and legislative involvement, etc.
● No Surprises!

My Word for 2024:
IMPACT

May 28-June 30
(Learning Rdale)
May 28, 2024 11:30 pm
● Verbal offer, verbal acceptance
May 29, May 30, May 31 and June 3 (20 hours)
● Visits to every department/office at the Educational Service Center
● Visits to every school to meet leaders, staff and students prior to the end of the school year
June 4-June 30, 2024 (35 hours)
● Recruiting, supporting hiring of administrators
● Transition meetings with Cabinet (meetings, communication, learning)
● Board agenda planning

First Official 19 Days

First Official 19 Days

First Official 19 Days

First Official 19 Days

Tools for Effective Board Governance and
Effective Meetings
● Communication protocols (draft of ideas in folders for email protocols)
○ Emails to full board; Emails to individual board members
○ District Communication (chain of command for concerns)
○ Communication with district staff (all request through Supt)
○ Data Request
○ Communication with superintendent (cell number)
■ Calls vs. emails
■ If urgent, text (if urgent, Teri will text and alert you to email)
■ Emails: include board chair
○ School visits (1:1 meetings with Supt in schools)

Victory June 30, 2025
● By the end of the 2024-25 academic year, if we have led well through the demonstration of excellence in governance and excellence in management, what is your vision of Victory (what will we be celebrating)?

Goal 1:
Establish leadership and communication to improve district culture, climate and trust.

Entry Plan:
In order to have
IMPACT,
I must Listen, Learn, Leverage Talent, and LEAD

Introducing
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Teri_Staloch@rdale.org | 763-504-8012

Theme for 2024-25
It's time to (Re)Discover Rdale!
Rediscover:
● An engaged school experience
● The joy in learning and teaching
● Talents and passions
● Friends, colleagues, families and OUR community
Believe. Belong. Become.
● Rediscover believing in yourself
● Rediscover belonging to a school community
● Rediscover becoming anything you want to be

Technology levy renewal
Technology for learning, safety and support
2024 Capital Projects Technology Levy Renewal
On Nov. 5, voters resoundingly approved the Capital Projects
Technology Levy Renewal.
Yes: 75 percent, 37,736 votes
No: 25 percent, 12,938 votes
The level of community support was historic: it was the highest approval percentage in Rdale's history, and the largest among the 67 school referenda questions on ballots statewide in 2024.

Committed to doing even better

Goal 2:
Provide leadership to align systems and create and implement a District System of Continuous Improvement.

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Strategic Plan

It's Time:
Strategic Leadership
System of Continuous Improvement:
Shared Leadership Model,
Strategic Plan and
Operational Plan

Excellence in Board
Governance
● District Governance and Policy
● Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction
● Board Governance Policy
● Superintendent Relations
● Public Engagement, Community Relations and Advocacy of Public
Education

Agenda Ideas
The school board will, at all regular The school board will, at all work school board meetings, follow an study sessions, follow and agenda agenda order similar to: order similar to:
1. Call to Order by Chair 1. Welcome
2. Roll Call 2. Roll Call
3. Public Comment on anything 3. Purpose & Agenda not on the agenda 4. District Governance & Policy
4. Approval of Agenda 5. Oversight of Operations
5. Consent Agenda 6. Board Governance Policy
6. Rdale Pride, Special 7. Superintendent Relations
Recognitions, or Program 8. Information Items
Presentations 9. Open Forum on anything on the
7. Personnel agenda
8. Unfinished Business 10. Future Agenda Topics
9. New Business 11. Adjourn
10. Policy
11. Board and Administrative
Reports
12. Adjournment
The school board may depart from the order of business with consent of the majority of members present.

Goal 3:
Promote leadership capacity building for increasing excellence in academics and operation.

Learning Leaders Meeting
PURPOSE
Leaders meet to coordinate action to accomplish the strategic directions in order to ultimately achieveour mission, which is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.
35

Norms
LEADERS WILL AGREE TO WORKING
TOGETHER WITH AND BY THE FOLLOWING:
● Humor, joy and fun
● Speak your truth
● Have positive intent
● Be flexible in solution seeking
● Stay engaged
● Push one another and stay solution focused
● Ensure all voices are heard
36

Collective Commitments
I will...
● always keep students and their needs first as we collaborate, plan and make decisions based on what is best for students;
● interrupt patterns, structures, and systems that prevent students from accessing and experiencing inclusive settings in order to reach their full potential;
● use data and seek multiple perspectives to inform all decisions;
● create the conditions and culture that prioritizes strong relationships between and among students and staff;
● stay solution-focused;
● center equity in all decisions, processes, policies and structures;
● lead with a focus on setting clear expectations and accountability systems for adult actions to improve the daily lived experience of students in the classroom and in our schools;
● support my staff with the resources and compassion they need to teach all kids effectively.
37

Outcomes
AS A RESULT OF THIS MEETING, LEADERS
WILL:
● engage in shared learning to build leadership competence in change management;
● provide input and be informed about short-term budget reductions and long-term process to Reimagine Rdale;
● support the District System of Continuous Improvement and hear a status update from a Strategic Theme
Priority Team; and
● connect personally and professionally with colleagues.
38

39

40

Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030
Purpose: Building long-term fiscal stability and reimagining Robbinsdale Area Schools to meet student needs. Pillars of the work:
● Vision 2030 Team: A 40-member stakeholder team driving the process.
● Community Survey: Gathering large-scale feedback from district families and community members.
● Community Engagement: Robust efforts to ensure diverse perspectives shape the future.

New word for 2025
in progress:
FOCUS

Questions or
Clarifications?

ROBBINSDALE

'Area Schools

My Word for 2024:

IMPACT

| le

a .
= Eirot OF ic ial 17 D ays

a .
= Eirot OF ic ial 17 D ays

g-_ oem |

ROBBINSDALE Fi ° r st OF ic tal 1 v4 D ays

MAXIMUM
OCCUPANCY

226

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

' ie <citl H iV : SS
ie ISCOVER RDALE 4-25 PRIORITIES

MISSION DISTRICT VISION

The mission of Robbinsdale Area Schools is committed to

i ensuring every student gradual
RobbinsdaleArea articulated skied trades and colle
Schools is to

inspire and Ox

educate all learners

ta NN prely We expect high intellectual performance from unique potential allour student

and positively , :
: : We are committed to ensuring an equitable contribute to their and respectful educational experience for community. every student, family and staff member

Academic Achievement
+ Enhance cultural relevance of curriculum for students
* Enhance an equitable learning system from early childhood to adults
* Deepen preparation for life, college and career

@& Student Engagement and Wellness
* Improve student-staff connection
+ Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety

Collaboration and Partnerships
+ Strengthen mutual communication and responsiveness with all stakeholders
« Expand equitable inclusion and influence of student, family, staff, and community voice

STRATEGIC THEMES

trict priority work and goals focused on itegic themes will help achieve our mission for each student,

PRIORITY OUTCOMES
GROUNDED IN EQUITY

i
|
|
|
I
| + improve achievement for students
| ofcolor
'Academic Achievement |» allstudents are ready for school
| + Every child reading at or above
| grade-level
|
I
I
|
|
I
|
|
|
|
I

(BO Student Engagement and

Wellness

'Academic and social-emotional growth in middle grades

Student engagement in school and learning

Student support from families to learn and achieve

Clear path and readiness for career, college and life

& Staff Investment and Impact

+ Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive, and welcoming

+ Increase consistency and accountability for common district practices

Collaboration and Partnerships

STRATEGIC PLAN

Zz
<
-
ae
Y
O
Lu
IE
<L
ag kK
Y

Ox Staff Investment and Impact

Believe. Belong. Become. Believe. Belong. Become.

\

uz

"mex COmmitted to doing even better

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools

Zz
<
=)
ae
2
©
Lu
=
<
ag i
YW)

Believe. Belong. Become.

(RE)DISCOVER RDALE

MISSION

The mission of
Robbinsdale Area

Schools is to

inspire and &
educate all learners

to develop their

unique potential

and positively

contribute totheir | («
community.

Strategic Plan

DISTRICT VISION

Robbinsdale Area Schools is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated skilled trades and college ready.

We believe each student has limitless possibilities and we strive to ignite the potential in every student.

we expect high intellectual performance from all our students.

\We are committed to ensuring an equitable and respectful educational experience for every student, family and staff member.

STRATEGIC THEMES
District priority work and goals focused on strategic themes will help achieve our
'mission for each student.

Academic Achievement

(BI Student Engagement and
Wellness

Collaboration and Partnerships

(Da SEiintesinantand impact

PRIORITY OUTCOMES
GROUNDED IN EQUITY

H

H

i

i

i

| + improve achievement for students
| creotor

| + Allstudents are ready for school
| 1 Every child wading a or above
| grade-level

| «Academic and social-emotional
|" Growth in middle grades

i 'Student engagement in school and
| * ira

i 'Student support from families to

|" jeaMd achieve

| + Clear path and readiness for career,
| college ana life

STRATEGIC PLAN

Academic Achievement
+ Enhance cultural relevance of curriculum for students
+ Enhance an equitable learning system from early childhood to adults
+ Deepen preparation for life, college and career

(By Student Engagement and Wellness
+ Improve student-staff connection
+ Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety

Collaboration and Partnerships

5 gt mutual and respot with all stakeholders

+ Expand equitable inclusion and influence of student, family, staff, and community voice

& Staff Investment and Impact
+ Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive, and welcoming
* Increase consistency and accountability for common.
district practices

Believe. Belong. Become.

ew System of Continuous Improvement

Area Schools

Shared Leadership Model, Strategic Plan and Operational Plan

ROBBINSDALE ° * .
Area Schools District Continuous Improvement

« (Re)Discover Rdale Strategic Plan
* School Board Goals

* District Priority Work

¢ District Balanced Scorecard

.

Outcomes grounded in equity

Student-Centered
Personalized Learning

Strategic Themes
+ Academic Achievement
« Student Engagement and
Wellness
¢ Collaboration and
Partnerships
« Staff Investment and Impact

Professional Learning and Development

Professional Learning
Communities (PLCs)

\

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools wa

ROBBINSDALE

[Area schools

Board of Education 2024-25 Agenda
'and Working Document

call

i

'or Gyen Row soe

(Era: Se 19,209,200)

ro saplnprres

'pp Ava Poe

'ever HSA Pay

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

Si vertevor- dom 5

ROBBINSDALE

Arca Schoo

(Some

'Seeecon Srscpment

'Sips em Gst
Sng

'Sos mi oa

'Westar oe en wth
Spemmencse

'Devs ag corms
Spite aoe

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

Board of Education 2024-25 Agenda
'and Working Document

[*s* |

Prosress

'Ree gol Log Rare
'Spt Pann toca

"i rene Any Gack
Seems

reste pense

onan iy
(remain 8)

Perabo etna

Strategic Plan Themes and Priority Work