School Board
Governance Professional
Development Retreat
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
July 19-20, 2024

Developing a Pathway for Success
● Excellence in Management:
○ Strategic Plan Implementation
○ Operational Excellence
● District System of Continuous Improvement
● Board roles and views of 3-year planning
● Board 2024-25 agenda and working document
● Board agenda flow

Excellence in Board
Governance
● District Governance and Policy
● Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction
● Board Governance Policy
● Superintendent Relations
● Public Engagement, Community Relations and Advocacy of
Public Education

Agenda Ideas
The school board will, at all regular The school board will, at all work school board meetings, follow an study sessions, follow and agenda agenda order similar to: order similar to:
1. Call to Order by Chair 1. Welcome
2. Roll Call 2. Roll Call
3. Public Comment on anything 3. Purpose & Agenda not on the agenda 4. District Governance & Policy
4. Approval of Agenda 5. Oversight of Operations
5. Consent Agenda 6. Board Governance Policy
6. Rdale Pride, Special 7. Superintendent Relations
Recognitions, or Program 8. Information Items
Presentations 9. Open Forum on anything on the
7. Personnel agenda
8. Unfinished Business 10. Future Agenda Topics
9. New Business 11. Adjourn
10. Policy
11. Board and Administrative
Reports
12. Adjournment
The school board may depart from the order of business with consent of the majority of members present.

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools School Board 3 Year Agenda

ceeded ROBBINSDALE
Board Role 2024-25 I 2025-26 Area Schools School Board 3 Year Agenda
2024-2027

* District Governance Monitor Board action through Monitor Board action through 'onitor Board action through joard Rol 2024-25 I 2025-26 2026-27

and Policy policy, resoluti to policy, ti Policy. resolution,
'support and lead dlstrict-wide to support and lead to support and le
'educational equity and distric-wide educational equity | _cistrict-wide educational equity i | eee | bee cto, Board Menets
'excellence centered on the and excellence centered on and excellence centered on neparatcn Meating Proareion ecting Procession.
Sends cree seicaris fro noseabeen scibers. tieiecoa of an euinares 'School Board-Self Evaluation 'School Board-Self Evaluation |e Schoo! Board-Self Evaluation
District Policy Review Three District Policy Review Three District Policy Review Three coe il ieee and Boalt Appaial tedboard Anal Appraiea
'Year Cycle - Review district Year Cycle - Review district Year Cycle - Review district rernaie) (Govegiace Srenane policies (series 100, 200, 300) policies (series 400, 500, 600) | policies (series 700, 800, 900) Gonauet Sotioal Goad Conde chool Beate Cone oe
'Approval Annual Mandated 'Approval Annual Mandated 'Approval Annual Mandated Di ps -
Policies (Required) Policies (Required) Policies (Required) [iintendi 7 antendaetAnn ua anni role (ested) eee Palace ied Fnenaent Sacra open Sepa Rua Sipeetendont va
Superintendent Annual Meet One on One Monthly with
© Operational 'Support District System of 'Support District System of 'Support District System of Appraisal 'SUPE dent

O Continuous and Continuous Improvement and Continuous Improvement and Meet One of One (cry yal

and Organizational Strategic Plan process through | Strategic Plan process through | Strategic Plan process through Superintendent
Direction 'monitoring updates and reports | monitoring updates and reports | _ monitoring updates and reports 'Conduct onboarding process for
(Operational Pian and Priority (Operational Pian and Priority (Operational Pian and Priority 'ew board members. -
Work) Work) Work) Educate and engage the Develop and communicate 'Develop and communicate
'Approve WBWF Plan - (WBWF |e Approve WAWF Plan -(WBWF | » Approve WBWF Plan - (WBWF community in levy campaign Legislative Platform Legislative Platform
'Approval Required) 'Approval Required) 'Approval Required) Develop and communicate Review data from annual Review data from annual
Monitor and approve budget Monitor and approve budget Monitor and approve budget Lgistative Platform student, staf and parent | student, staffand parent
'and budget process (Budget 'and budget process (Budget 'and budget process (Budget Review data from annual satisfaction surveys and Morris | satisfaction surveys and Morris
'Approval Approval) Approval) student, staff and parent Leatherman survey Leatherman survey
Review and adjust Long Range | © Review and adjust Long Review and adjust Long satisfaction surveys and Morris
Budget Planning Model, Range Budget Planning Model | Range Budget Planning Model Leatherman survey
Monitor and use enrollment Monitor and use enrollment Monitor and use enrolment
'ends to plan strategically for trends to pian strategically for | trends to plan strategically for facilites, staffing and budget facilities, staffing and budget facilities, staffing and budget decisions decisions decisions
Update, revise and approve Update, revise and approve Update, revise and approve
Long Term Facilities Long Term Facilties Long Term Facilities
Maintenance Plan Maintenance Plan Maintenance Plan

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools wa

ROBBINSDALE

[Area schools

Board of Education 2024-25 Agenda
'and Working Document

call

i

'or Gyen Row soe

(Era: Se 19,209,200)

ro saplnprres

'pp Ava Poe

'ever HSA Pay

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

Si vertevor- dom 5

ROBBINSDALE

Arca Schoo

(Some

'Seeecon Srscpment

'Sips em Gst
Sng

'Sos mi oa

'Westar oe en wth
Spemmencse

'Devs ag corms
Spite aoe

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

Board of Education 2024-25 Agenda
'and Working Document

[*s* |

Prosress

'Ree gol Log Rare
'Spt Pann toca

"i rene Any Gack
Seems

reste pense

onan iy
(remain 8)

Perabo etna

Strategic Plan Themes and Priority Work