To: Board of Education
From: Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent and Alissa Pier, Interim Executive
Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation
Date: Thursday, February 29, 2024
Re: Peterson Sheet Metal and Trane
Settlement Update - July 22, 2024
In 2021, the District hired Peterson Sheet Metal (PSM) to undertake HVAC improvements at
Cooper High School, including the replacement of fan coil units. The specifications required double-wall units, and PSM's supplier, Trane, initially indicated it would supply such units.
However, it was later determined that Trane supplied 36 single-wall units. In fact, Trane does not manufacture double-wall units of that size. Consequently, the District withheld PSM's retainage on the project until the matter was resolved.
The dispute was mediated, and the parties reached an agreement whereby the District would retain $145,000 of the retainage as damages for the non-specified units.
We are now requesting approval of the settlement agreement and issuance of payment for the remaining retainage.
Peterson Sheet Metal and Trane
The district participated in mediation around a dispute with a contractor and materials provider regarding a portion of a construction project that took place the summer of 2022. An offer of
$60,000 had previously been offered to the district months prior, which was declined by the district. After going through the mediation process, the conclusion of this dispute is as outlined below (as written by the Mediator, in summary):
This executive summary follows up on and confirms our mediated settlement discussions between Peterson Sheet Metal and Trane and Robbinsdale Area Schools. At the close of our negotiations we were able to reach a tentative settlement agreement of the current dispute.
It is a "tentative" agreement because the agreement must be reduced to writing and formally approved by the ISD 281 School Board. My understanding of the agreement is as follows:
1. ISD 281 will retain $145,000 of the remaining contract balance claimed as due by Peterson
Sheet Metal.
2. ISD 281 shall make payment to Peterson Sheet Metal of $40,576.99.
3. Peterson Sheet Metal accepted the payment of $40,576.99 in full satisfaction of its remaining contract balance for amounts due on the 2021 HVAC Improvement Project at Cooper High school (the "Project").

4. Trane agrees to waive its claim for payment of amounts due or claimed as due from Peterson
Sheet Metal for the Project.
5. The parties agree to mutual releases of any claims against each other for payment or for claimed damages related to the supply of single wall fan coil units for the project in lieu of double walled fan coil units.
6. The payments made and received are not an admission of liability or fault
7. The settlement is conditioned upon formal approval by the ISD 281 School Board.
We are pleased that the district was able to retain an additional $85,000 above what the previous offer had been, as a result of the mediation process.