To: School board
Date: Monday, March 4, 2024
Re: Warehouse Career Pathways/CTE Update
Current Status:
Following displacement of the Career Pathways/CTE program from the Warehouse location as of
October 13, 2023, the program adapted in order to maintain the level of service that students were previously receiving.
Our students, in working with their counselors, were able to adjust schedules so that all but three students were able to continue with these courses as originally planned.
● Includes hosting a split CNA class at both high school locations
● Transporting Armstrong students to Cooper for EMT class
We have made every effort to maintain the course offerings that students were previously enrolled in. Without adequate space specifically designed for career Pathways courses, the district will struggle to meet student choice offerings beginning in fall 2024.
Impact:
● Moving Emergency Medical Response and Technician courses to a high school building resulted in:
○ Not having adequate space to do realistic simulated emergency scenes.
○ Inadequate space, creating challenges for students when practicing skills
● Relocation of Certified Nursing Assistant (CNA) classes, creating a single section at each high school, which:
○ Limited options for students to take the class that best fits into their schedule
○ Led to having only enough nursing equipment for one lab so it currently is in storage
(inadequate space for both lab and lecture)
○ Compels us to rent space at Hennepin Technical College and provide transportation for skills lab and testing for eight full days total - which results in incurred rental fees. As a result, students will miss multiple other classes for a period of four days.
● Postponement of next-phase planning of the following possible courses options due to space limitations that may have been met by classrooms built at the warehouse location:
○ Computer Science: creating a lab with computers that have the capacity to support coding, language and I.T. requirements.
○ Robotics: setting up a robotics course for students from the high school sites as current space in traditional classrooms will not work due to spatial and experimental aspects of the program to learn design, programming, and AI implications of this technology.
○ Student Tech Lab: space to learn how to repair and do the necessary work on district equipment, to gain high level skills in IT repair. (hands-on, applied learning)
○ Construction Labs: space needed to create various construction-related labs in framing, electrical, masonry and finishing in order to provide equitable access for all students.

● Centralized location: allows the district to better use monetary resources in purchasing licenses for Industry Credentials and Certifications. This year this fee was paid for through our
Perkins and United Way funds.