Marsh McLennan Agency
6160 Golden Hills Drive
Minneapolis MN 55416
+1 763 746 8000
MarshMMA.com
April 30, 2025
Kristen Hoheisel
Chief Financial Officer
4148 Winnetka Avenue N.
New Hope, MN 55427
Dear Ms. Hoheisel,
Marsh McLennan Agency is very proud to partner with Robbinsdale School District #281 for their risk management and property & casualty insurance needs. Minnesota public schools continue to face a number of challenges including budget constraints, staffing shortages, cyber-attacks, bullying, violent events, social media, claims of failure to educate, etc. These challenges are flowing through in the form of more frequent and severe insurance claims, which is putting continued stress on the schools and the school insurance market.
The property insurance market has been severely strained the past few years with claims paid outpacing premium collected due to convective storms, water damage claims and continuously increased cost of construction.
Robbinsdale Schools has sustained some property and water damage claims over the past couple of years with a sprinkler head failure and pipe break at two district building locations. When faced with an extremely hard insurance carrier market in 2024 resulting in reduced coverage and significantly increased deductibles, Marsh
McLennan Agency marketed to the top education insurance carrier markets for the total package insurance lines, as well as monoline property insurance markets that have the ability to insure a school district of Robbinsdale's size. This resulted in aligning more competitive terms through AFM and Hanover Insurance with lower overall premium including stronger coverage with significantly lower deductibles as compared to Liberty Insurance.
Although these alternative quotes were more competitive than the expiring carrier's renewal offering, the district still faced a significant overall premium increase in combination with the property value increases after the negotiated 3 year stair step increases expired after the 2023 renewal. In order to help offset a portion of what would've been a larger increase, Marsh McLennan Agency reduced the standard commission offering from both
AFM and Hanover, down to 10%.
AFM now insures the districts' property insurance which is the largest premium driver of the district's package insurance program. MMA negotiated a very competitive proposal for the district of $17,593 premium increase over expiring. This includes a modest 1% increase to the building property values, and 3% increase to rate - totalling
4% premium increase over last year. They maintained the same strong coverage terms and deductible structure for all areas other areas, but did make one change by adding a $50,000 water damage deductible. That was an increase over the $25,000 standard AOP deductible because of increased frequency with water damage claims across public schools, combined with the fact Robbinsdale sustained two recent water damage claims. Hanover insures the core liability insurance lines for the district including the General Liability, Educator's Legal Liability,
Auto and Umbrella Insurance. The casualty insurance market is strained due to increasing frequency and severity with litigation and social inflation and the district had a tough liability claim from 2024 settle for $150,000. Hanover offered an initial renewal of $371,935 which initially represented an increase of $44,898 over expiring. MMA is
Hanover's largest partner for MN schools, so they leaned into their relationship and negotiated to reduce the initial premium offering by $9,678, to a total of $362,257. The Cyber Liability insurance renewal through Beazley was favorable, resulting in only a 3% increase.
The overall premium for all lines of insurance is increasing from $822,562 to $882,091 annually, which equates to a 7% overall premium increase. This includes the same reduced commission structure that MMA moved to last year in which the 15% standard commission built into the premiums from AFM and Hanover were reduced to
10%.
A business of Marsh McLennan
Marsh & McLennan Agency LLC

Marsh McLennan will continue to work with the district to proactively manage their complex risks while keeping the insurance costs as manageable as possible given the market conditions. Marsh McLennan Agency is the leading broker for public school districts in the state, and the endorsed broker partner for Property & Casualty
Insurance by the Minnesota School Board Association.
We appreciate the continued partnership and look forward to continuing to support and service the district in any way that we can.
Sincerely,
Patrick Truax, AIA
Risk Consultant
Schools & Public Entities
Marsh McLennan Agency
Marsh & McLennan Agency LLC