To: Supt. Staloch & The Robbinsdale Board of Education
From: Facilities and Operations Department
Date: 02/03/25
Re: 2025 LTFM Project Scope Revision Summary
2025 LTFM Project Scope Revision Summary
Summary:
Robbinsdale Area Schools Facilities and Operations Department, in coordination with the Finance
Department, has paused some of the scheduled 2025 LTFM project and design work at several sites: FAIR Crystal, Neill Elementary, and Lakeview Elementary.
It has been determined that the scope of the paused mechanical, electrical and associated architectural and finish work is not immediately operationally essential, and that pausing the work will not dramatically or negatively impact daily operations at the sites in the next few years.
The district is moving forward with scheduled 2025 LTFM work of paving at Forest Elementary
School, elevator replacement at Lakeview Elementary School, roofing at Robbinsdale Spanish
Immersion Elementary School, pavement Plymouth Middle School, roofing at Robbinsdale Middle
School, roofing at Sandburg Middle School, and roofing Cooper High School.
Considerations
As we engage our community in determining the long-term direction and needs of the district, it is important to ensure that the community's voice is heard in determining where their priorities lie for our facilities. We need to balance the responsibility of caring for our facilities today with the potential challenges and changes we face moving forward.
It has been determined that none of the mechanical or electrical systems in the LTFM scope of work at FAIR, Neill, or Lakeview are at critical failure points, and that there is little additional risk involved in pausing significant LTFM investments in these facilities until we reassess our facility use, facility conditions and prioritize needs.
Next steps
There are several steps that need to happen concurrently:
● The District will need to complete a facility use assessment.
● The District will need to update and complete the comprehensive facilities conditions assessment.
● The District will gather input and direction through our community engagement process on priorities and direction for the district and its facilities.
When these steps have been completed, we will reprioritize the use of our LTFM dollars and update the 10 year LTFM plan for board review and approval prior to July 2025.
This spring and summer, the Facilities and Operations Department's LTFM focus will primarily be on operationally essential maintenance and repair work. Several priorities have been identified and we continue to evaluate current conditions and identify our more immediate needs.