Independent School District 281 Policy 506 Robbinsdale Area Schools
Adopted: June 3, 2019
Revised: January 11, 2024
506 STUDENT DISCIPLINE
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of student discipline is to: prevent or minimize harm to the student and others; minimize disruption to the learning and working environments; and ensure that students are held accountable for their actions to the extent their behavior was knowing and intentional, unsafe or dangerous and/or in violation of the Student
Conduct Procedure, Board policy, or the law. The purpose of this policy is to articulate the school board's commitment to professional development for employees designed to result in: the use of discipline only when other corrective actions are not effective and/or practicable; equity in student discipline; and the use of non-exclusionary discipline whenever possible.
Effective responses to student misconduct consider the age and cognitive development of the student and include: framing instruction and coaching to the needs of the particular student; building or strengthening relationships; repair of harm; restorative practices designed to restore relationships, and re-engage students in the learning community. Effective discipline is educational, not punitive.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
Individual responsibility, social/emotional skill development, and mutual respect are essential components of the educational process. District employees must prioritize student growth and learning, and hold students accountable for their actions as a part of the growth and learning process. All students are entitled to learn and develop in a setting which provides clear and equitable expectations for their conduct, and promotes respect of self, others, and property. Such a setting provides options and stresses student self-direction, informed decision-making, self-control,
Draft and individual responsibility, in keeping with a student's cognitive, physical, psychological, and developmental capacities.
Student conduct is subject to the Student Conduct Procedure, which: defines and describes the expectations for student conduct; is designed to promote equity; prioritizes student and staff safety, promotes student growth and learning, and seeks to create an atmosphere conducive to high student achievement.
Although this policy emphasizes the development of self-discipline, it is recognized that there are instances when it will be necessary to administer disciplinary

measures. The school board believes that an equitable district-wide student discipline policy is an essential component in the work to realize the school board's commitment to student and staff safety, respect students' and staff rights and responsibilities, and minimizing disruption to the learning and working environment.
This discipline policy is adopted, and must be implemented by staff as described in the administrative procedures, in accordance with and subject to the Minnesota
Pupil Fair Dismissal Act, Minnesota Statutes, sSections 121A.40-121A.56.
III. AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY
A. The School Board. The school board holds all employees responsible for adhering to this policy.
B. Superintendent. The superintendent shall establish procedures to implement this policy.
Legal References:
Minn. Stat. §§ 121A.40-121A.56 (Pupil Fair Dismissal Act)
Cross References: Equity Policy
Draft