Minutes of Business Meeting
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Approved XXXX
A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, May 6, 2024, beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."
Call to Order and Roll Call
Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.
Acceptance of the Agenda
Chair Bowman moved to add an item to the Business Meeting agenda for discussion regarding release of the mediation findings and recommendations to the public - Director Vento recommended as item 4.B., after Early
Intervention Mediation Cost. Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
MOTION: Director Brooks moved removal of item 4.A. - Early Intervention Mediation Cost for further discussion of what the Board wants, Director Bassett seconded the motion. After further discussion, this motion was rescinded. MOTION:
Director Evans-Becker moved to approve the amended agenda, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Arts Showcase
Plymouth Middle School (PMS) Sola Voce Ensemble
PMS Principal Naida Grussing-Neitzel introduced Clarissa Geske, Director and the ensemble. The group was accompanied by Rachel Jones. They performed the title song from The Sound of Music, and "I See the Light" from the movie Tangled with Claire Shafer and Ashlynn Johnson as soloists.
Sharing the Success
Math Masters Regional Competitions
Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs introduced Rose Sybrant, RSIS Teacher/
Math Masters Coach and James Ommart, a parent volunteer. Ms. Sybrant outlined how Math Masters runs from
November-March each school year for 4th and 5th graders, teaching them problem-solving skills through word problems. They had five teams of five in the recent regional competitions, with two alternates, and did quite well.
Operations
A. Action: Early Intervention Mediation Cost - Tobin Lay, Mediation Center of Minnesota
Mr. Lay proposed a separate agreement between $3,320.00-$6,360.00 for early intervention mediation prioritizing the first dyad.
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Brooks. Said motion was declared duly passed.
B. Action: Release of Mediation Assessment Report and Recommendations with an Email
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval, and Chair Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
C. Action: Resolution Accepting FY24 mid-year Budget Revisions
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
D. Non-Action: Policy 103: Complaints - Students, Employees, Parents, Other Persons
Policy Committee members reviewed the policy and procedure, and recommended they move to action for final vote at the Business Meeting on May 20, 2024.
E. Non-Action: Policy 526: Hazing Prohibition

Policy Committee members reviewed the policy and procedure, and recommended they move to action for final vote at the Business Meeting on May 20, 2024.
MOTION: Director Holmes moved to suspend by-laws, Chair Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
MOTION: Director Holmes moved to add a Closed Session on May 20, 2024 after the Work Session regarding Administrative Procedure 526.1:L Hazing Prohibition, and incidents - Chair Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
MOTION: Director Vento moved bringing meeting back to regular order with by-laws, Chair Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed.
F. Non-Action: Policy 529: Staff Notification of Violent Behavior by Students
Policy Committee members reviewed the policy and procedure, and recommended they move to action for final vote at the Business Meeting on May 20, 2024.
G. Non-Action: Policy 598: Early Entrance to Kindergarten
Policy Committee members reviewed the policy, and recommended they move to action for final vote at the
Business Meeting on May 20, 2024. The procedure regarding this policy will be reviewed sometime in June.
H. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Update
Committee members had provided a written update in the agenda. A Closed Session for a Board of
Education safety drill will occur on May 20, 2024 prior to Listening Time.
MOTION: Director Holmes moved to recess the meeting, Chair Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bassett, Brooks, Evans-Becker, and Vento. Said motion failed.
I. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee update.
Committee members deferred their discussion to the Work Session following this Business Meeting.
J. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Update
Chair Bowman and Director Evans-Becker are making strides gathering work, and organizing documents.
They are preparing to present to the School Board for feedback soon.
K. Policy Committee Update
The meeting scheduled for April 24, 2024 was canceled due to lack of quorum. The next meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, May 8, 2024 at 6:00 p.m.
L. Human Resources Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources had provided a written update regarding Black Men
Teach, and was available for questions.
Consent Agenda
Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)
Adjournment
MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
8:58 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
Signed:___________________________________________ Date:____________________________
Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, ISD 281