To: Board of Education
Re: Human Resources Update
Date: June 17, 2024
The Minnesota Department of Education has updated their qualifications to be eligible for inclusion in the special education aid calculation or federal special education reimbursement.
This criteria is also true for educational tutors in Federally Funded Title programs. This information is not new, but was not regulated during the pandemic and will be monitored again starting the
2024-2025 school year. So what does this mean?
In order to be paid with special education funds, a paraprofessional with less than three years'
experience must meet one of the following or have the Professional Educator Licensing and
Standards Board (PELSB) paraprofessional credential:
❏ At least two years of college credits (usually 60 credits in Minnesota) through an accredited institution of higher education; or
❏ An associate's or higher degree; or
❏ A passing score on a valid and reliable MDE approved formal assessment demonstrating the knowledge and ability to assist with instruction in reading/language, writing, mathematics or readiness for each.
In order to be paid with special education funds, a paraprofessional with three or more years'
experience, the paraprofessional must meet one of the following or have the PELSB professional credential:
❏ At least two years of college credits (usually 60 credits in Minnesota) through an accredited institution of higher education; or
❏ An associate's or higher degree; or
❏ A passing score on a valid and reliable MDE approved formal assessment demonstrating the knowledge and ability to assist with instruction in reading/language, writing, mathematics or readiness for each; or
❏ Has met the requirements of the Paraprofessional Credential Competency Grid (PCCG).
❏ Anyone who has been in the district for more than 3 years can have their professional learning transcripts reviewed to determine if the professional development courses meet the competencies to become highly qualified.
Anyone who has not met requirements via transcripts, prior assessment results or meeting the
Paraprofessional Credential Competency Grid (PCCG), will need to get a passing score on a
Paraprofessional Assessment. The human resource and special education department have collaborated to support the 60 current education assistants who need to pass the Paraeducator
Assessment prior to the 2024-2025 school year.
Plan of Action:
● Introduction to Paraeducator Assessment

● Multiple In-person support tutoring sessions
● On-line tutoring sessions
● Module tutoring sessions
● Multiple test taking opportunities
● Multiple test taking strategies
Our goal is to have all of the special education and tutor educational assistants highly qualified by the end of the summer. We also have an onboarding plan for those who are hired and need to take the Paraeducator assessment in Robbinsdale.