OATH OF OFFICE

I swear/affirm that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of this state, and that I will discharge faithfully the duties of the office of school board member of Independent
School District No. 281 to the best of my judgment and ability.

pate / EAO2S heated

Signature

STATE OF MINNESOTA _ )
) ss.
COUNTY OF HENNEPIN _ )

The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this @Hy_ day of
JAVA , 2025 by Greta Evans-Becker.

Notary oad 7

MOLLY JEAN OLSON

3 Notary Public-Minnesota y' My Commission Expires Jan 31, 2026

Robbinsdale Area Schools
SCHOOL BOARD DIRECTOR OATH OF OFFICE

It is an honor that you were selected to guide the education of our community's children. As you recite the oath of office, you assume a tremendous responsibility as a director of our school district with the duties empowered by the Minnesota Legislature. This power puts you and the other members of our school board in the position of being both morally and legally responsible for equitable, quality education of every student in the district.

In carrying out this responsibility, you will be asked to fulfill the roles of vision, structure, accountability, and advocacy. In providing vision, the board, with extensive participation of the community, envisions the community's educational future and then formulates the goals, defines the outcomes, and sets the course for the public schools.

To achieve the vision, the board establishes a structure and creates an environment designed to ensure all students the opportunity to attain their maximum potential through a sound organizational framework.

Because as a board we must be accountable to the community, we must ensure a continuous assessment of student achievement and all conditions affecting the education of our children.

As board members, we serve as education's key advocate on behalf of students and our community schools to advance the vision for our schools.

Furthermore, we must strive to work together with the superintendent and staff to lead the district toward fulfilling the vision we have created, fostering excellence for every student in the areas of academic skills and knowledge, citizenship and personal development.

RICK

Having signed the acceptance of office and oath of office, | hereby publicly affirm my commitment to the oath of office:

| swear/affirm that | will support the Constitution of the United States and of this state, and that |
will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of school board director of Robbinsdale Area
Schools, Independent School District No. 281, to the best of my judgment and ability.

pute Eran Lid _/-6 2202S-
lek, none Cihe. -6 Pie

Director Date