Robbinsdale Area Schools School Closure Hearing
Procedures and Guidelines for Dec. 15, 2025
1. The school closure hearing on 12/15/25 is part of the school board meeting.
2. Under Minnesota Statutes section 123B.51, subdivision 5, a school board shall hear from individuals "requesting to give testimony for and against" a school closure proposal. In doing so, a school board may impose restrictions on speaking time or other hearing procedures in a meeting on a school closure so long as those "restrictions are reasonable and allow a meaningful opportunity for public testimony. The following procedures, guidelines, and restrictions will be in place for the 12/15/25 hearing.
a. Persons wishing to give testimony as part of this hearing must sign up prior to
(6:30PM) on December 15, 2025, using the Google form available online.
b. Each person signed up to provide testimony will be allowed three (3) minutes to provide testimony.
c. Speakers will be announced in the order of sign-up. To facilitate efficiency, the person who is "UP" to speak, the person "NEXT" to speak, and the person "ON DECK" to speak will be announced at the conclusion of each testimony. Upon announcement, speakers should make their way to the line at the podium.
d. Speaking will take place at the podium. Speakers should announce themselves by name and which school or schools they are speaking on behalf of.
e. Speaking time will be controlled by a designated person. Speakers will be notified (by a sign) when there is one (1) minute of time remaining. Speakers will be notified (by a sign) when there are 30 seconds of time remaining. Speakers will be notified
(verbally and by a sign) when time has expired and must finish their testimony at such time. Speakers will not be allowed to continue on past the allotted time.
f. Speaker testimony shall be limited to the school closure proposal.
g. Speaker testimony shall be directed only at the board. And, as per School Board policy: "Personal attacks by anyone addressing the school board are unacceptable.
Persistence in such remarks by an individual shall terminate that person's privilege to address the school board." (See School Board 207 AP: Public Hearings, section III.
Procedures, under C. Public Participation, Number 5 and Minnesota Statute 13.43.)
h. Additionally, speakers are expected to adhere to School Board policy 504 AP:
Student Dress and Appearance, section II. General Statement of Policy.
Individual speakers may not combine speaking time (so if one speaker only speaks for 1:30, they can't share that time so the next speaker has 4:30).
Individual speakers may only speak once during the hearing.
3. To ensure the school board provides undivided attention to the speakers providing testimony, the following audience guidelines and restrictions will be in place.
a. No signs (printed, written, whiteboards, etc.)
b. No mascots will be allowed c. No applause, cheering, booing, or other seemingly distracting behaviors to the process will be allowed d. Persons not abiding by these restrictions will be considered disorderly, a disruption to the process, and be removed from the premises.
This is not intended to be an exhaustive list of procedures, guidelines, or restrictions. The school board reserves the right to add additional reasonable restrictions.