To: Board of Education
From: Bridget Hall
Date: February 20, 2024
Re: K-12 Mathematics Update
Elementary
● CORE Instruction includes increasing modeling of strategies, student voice and partnering, and individualizing the learning for where students are:
○ Calendar math - daily review on key math concepts
○ Number talks in which students are using academic language, explaining their thinking, and the strategy being used. This allows for our students to use their voice, choice and agency. It allows for more student talk and more teacher coaching.
○ Students engage in problem solving using specific strategies such as QSW: question, strategy, work and P.O.S.E. - focusing on thinking skills
○ Students work in small groups to think through rigorous problems
○ Students receive differentiated instruction and practice on Redbird
● Planning Instruction/Intervention:
○ Goal setting after fall aMath testing
○ New learning through Professional Learning Communities
○ Fact fluency practice in addition to grade level work
○ Partner games, math stations and math review throughout the day- increasing a love for math
○ Daily math groups with a teacher providing differentiated instruction and research-based interventions
○ IXL is personalized learning. With a comprehensive K-8 mathematics curriculum, individualized guidance, and real-time analytics. IXL meets the unique needs of each learner and we are currently introducing it to support small group learning time to review skills.
This is a pilot opportunity and admin and staff were given the opportunity to learn more and decide if they wanted to participate. We have 100% of our elementary sites participating.
● Supporting Math Instruction Tools:
○ Blended learning: blended instruction, self-pacing, and mastery-based learning.
○ Teaching of how to use manipulatives and why
○ Math Corps tutors work with students
○ Integration of Multilingual Strategies within Math
○ Providing strategy review with our VIP volunteers
● MATH Masters
4th and 5th Graders participate in district and regional competitions, using critical thinking and problem solving rigorous math problems. {36 total students representing (8-4th)
(28-5th)

Upcoming Events: Math Master District Competition- March 4 and 6
Math Master Regional Competition- April 12 and 19
Secondary
● Grades 6, 7, 8 using IXL to introduce and review skills
○ IXL is personalized learning. With a comprehensive K-8 mathematics curriculum, individualized guidance, and real-time analytics. IXL meets the unique needs of each learner and we are currently introducing it to support small group learning time to review skills.
This is a pilot opportunity and admin and staff were given the opportunity to learn more and decide if they wanted to participate. We have 100% of our middle sites participating.
○ EA math tutor in middle school
○ Blended learning in several classes at 2 middle schools
● High school math intervention courses
○ Specifically targeted students for a second math class
○ Semester long, 15-18 students per class
○ Use of ALEKS intervention course at CHS
■ ALEKS is a research-based, online learning program that offers course products for Math. ALEKS is a proven, online learning platform that helps educators and parents understand each student's knowledge and learning progress in depth, and provides the individual support required for every student to achieve mastery.
○ Use of Next Gen Personal Finance free resources/curriculum
○ Math tutor in math resource room at AHS
○ Zero hour math (Targeted Services) at RMS
○ Blended learning in several classes at both high schools
● DATA Sets: Upcoming March meeting Dr. Ulik will be reviewing our FastBridge Data results from Fall to Winter.