Rdale Proud:
FAIR Crystal -
Media Arts
Zoraba Ross, Principal
Christopher Murnane, Visual and Media Arts Specialist
May 19, 2025

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these
Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Media Arts
Animations
● Sixth grade created Whiteboard animations.
● Seventh grade created Inanimate Object animations.
● Eighth grade created Claymations.
Media Arts Animation Videos
Animations created by Quinn Johnson 6th, Malachi
Foster-Wagner 7th, and Shayra Marti Chong 8th

Outdoor Classroom
Garden Plaques
● Plaques were created in Adobe Illustrator.
● Created for the outdoor classrooms at Fair
School Crystal.
● Information about the plants in the Gardens
Thank you to Jennifer Holtgrewe, and the Exploration of the senses.
Scott Carlson and Beth Schmiesing for all the support on this project.

Cooper Alumna Speaker
Christopher Murnane
Visual and Media Arts Specialist at FAIR School Crystal
Cooper Class of 1988
6

Cooper Alumna Speaker
● Sonnesyn Elementary for Kindergarten
● Pilgrim Lane - Grades 1-6
● Plymouth Junior High - Grades 7-9
● Armstrong High School - Grade 10
● Cooper High School - Grades 11-12
● College - Normandale CC - AA degree
● Winona State University - BS in Art ED
● Hamline University - MA in ED
● Tenured in 3 School Districts
● ISD 196 Rosemount/Apple Valley/Eagan 1993-99
● ISD 112 Eastern Carver County Schools 1999-2023
● ISD 281 Rdale 2023-25 (HOME)
7

Questions?
Thank you!

ROBBINSDALE

'Area Schools

Questions?

Thank you!