Robbinsdale Area Schools
Transportation Director Services

SERVICES AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is made effective for all purposes in all respects as of August 1,
2025 by and between (i) CESO Transportation, LLC (hereinafter referred to as
"Company" or "CESO"), and (ii) Robbinsdale Area Schools (hereinafter referred to as
"Client"). Company and Client shall be collectively referred to as the "Parties."
WHEREAS, Company is in the business of providing transportation management and operational services to school districts and other entities and is willing and able to provide these services to Client;
WHEREAS, Client desires to engage Company in the aforesaid capacity;
WHEREAS, the Company and Client wish to set forth in writing the terms and conditions of their Agreements and understandings.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants hereinafter set forth, and of other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereto agree as follows:
1. SCOPE OF SERVICES: Company shall be responsible to perform the services set forth in the Scope Of Services and Pricing, which is attached hereto as Exhibit A
and incorporated herein by reference. To the extent that the Scope Of Services and
Pricing conflicts with the terms delineated in this Services Agreement, the terms in the Services Agreement shall control.
2. TERM and TERMINATION:
a. Services shall be provided on an annual basis, commencing on November
1, 2025, and ending on December 31, 2026.
b. The term of this Services Agreement will renew automatically for an additional twelve (12) month annual period, January 1st, 2027, to
December 31st, 2027, unless notice of non-renewal is provided by Client in writing not later than October 1 of each year.
c. Starting January 2027 and each January in the following years, there will be a 4% increase in the fee.
3. RESPONSIBILITIES:
a. Company will provide services as enumerated in the Scope of Services and
Pricing with the care and skill ordinarily exercised by reputable members of its profession practicing under similar conditions during the period of this Services Agreement.

b. Client will provide all information necessary and access to information, staff and facilities as needed so that work can be conducted by Company in an economical, timely and safe manner.
c. The fees listed in the Scope of Services and Pricing is the amount owed to the Company for the services provided by Company under this Agreement.
d. Invoices will be submitted to Client every month for work performed during the month. The Client shall make payments in accordance with
Section 7. a. of this Agreement.
4. INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE:
a. Company shall indemnify and hold harmless Client against losses, damages and claims, demands, actions, costs (including reasonable attorney fees), and fines of any kind resulting from any breach of this Agreement by
Company, its employees, agents, subcontractors or licenses, of their obligation under this Agreement, or from any negligence or misconduct by
Company, its employees, agents, subcontractors or licensees, but only for the proportion of damages which is equal to Company's proportion of the total fault which directly caused the damages.
b. Client shall indemnify and hold harmless Company against losses, damages and claims, demands, actions, costs (including reasonable attorney fees), and fines of any kind resulting from any breach of this Agreement by
Client, its employees, agents, subcontractors or licenses, of their obligation under this Agreement, or from any negligence or misconduct by Client, its employees, agents, subcontractors or licensees, but only for the proportion of damages which is equal to Client's proportion of the total fault which directly caused the damages.
c. Company carries coverage and limits of liability insurance for the
Company's own negligence as required by law and/or Client requirements.
These include, but are not limited to the following:
i. Workers Compensation ii. Employers' Liability iii. Comprehensive General Liability with the following coverage:
1. Bodily Injury
2. Property Damage
3. Personal Injury
4. General Aggregate
5. Product
6. Fire Damage
7. Medical Expense iv. Physical Loss insurance sufficient to cover loss or damage to
Company's owned or leased equipment.
v. Excess Umbrella Liability. Company's policy provides coverage in addition to each of the coverages listed above including
Comprehensive

vi. General Liability and Company Liability.
Company shall provide Certificates of Insurance to Client on request documenting all coverages, limits and endorsements within ten (10) days of request. The liability insurance policies shall have a minimum of one million five hundred thousand ($1,500,000) per occurrence and shall name
Robbinsdale Area Schools as an additional insured.
5. DATA PRACTICES: Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Section 13.05, subd. 11, all of the data created, collected, received, stored, used, maintained, or disseminated by Company in performing this Agreement is subject to the requirements of the
Minnesota Government Data Practices Act ("MGDPA"), Minnesota Statutes,
Chapter 13, and Company must comply with those requirements as if it were a government entity. Company does not have a duty to provide access to public data if the data are available from Client, except as required by the terms of this
Agreement.
6. NON-DISCRIMINATION: Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Section 181.59,
Company will ensure that applicants are selected, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, status with regard to public assistance, membership or activity in a local civil rights commission, disability or age.
7. PROMPT PAYMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT BILLS: All payments to
Company shall be governed by the Prompt Payment of Local Government Bills,
Minnesota Statutes, Section 471.425 ("Prompt Payment Act"), provided, however, that the interest rate for payments due but unpaid shall be four percent (4.00%) per annum. The statute requires invoices to be paid within 35 days of receipt, unless
Client has notified Company within 10 days of receipt that the invoice is incorrect or otherwise improper, and in that case Client will make payment for the corrected invoice within 35 days of receipt.
8. PROMPT PAYMENT TO SUBCONTRACTORS: In accordance with Minnesota
Statutes, Section 471.425, Company must pay any subcontractor within ten (10)
days of Company's receipt of payment from Client for undisputed services provided by the subcontractor. Company is to pay interest of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month or any part of a month to the subcontractor on any undisputed amount not paid on time to the subcontractor. The minimum monthly interest penalty payment for an unpaid balance of one-hundred dollars ($100) or more is ten dollars ($10). For an unpaid balance of less than $100, Company shall pay the actual penalty due to the subcontractor. A subcontractor who prevails in a civil action to collect interest penalties from Company must be awarded its costs and disbursements, including attorney's fees, incurred in bringing the action.
9. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR STATUS:

a. Company is performing services under this Agreement as an independent contractor and its employees are not employees or agents of Client. Client's financial obligation to Company is limited to the fees specified in this
Agreement. No withholding or deduction for State or Federal income taxes,
FICA, FUTA, or otherwise, will be made from the payments due Company, and it is Company's sole obligation to comply with the applicable provisions of all Federal and State tax laws.
b. Because Company is an independently established business, its employees are not eligible for and shall not participate in any fringe benefits available to Client's employees, including, but not limited to, health, disability, life, retirement or deferred compensation.
c. All individuals providing services to Client under this Agreement, including but not limited to the individuals in the positions specified in the
Scope of Services and Pricing, are employees of Company, and thus
Company has sole discretion to hire, supervise, and terminate the employment of such individuals. However, Client shall have the right, upon notice to Company, to preclude certain individuals from providing services to Client.
10. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS: Company shall abide by all Federal, State and local laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations now in effect or hereinafter adopted pertaining to this Agreement or to the facilities, programs and staff for which Company is responsible.
11. AUTHORITY TO CONTRACTOR AND ASSIGN: Company has no authority to enter into contracts on behalf of Client, unless expressly granted such authority, in writing, by Client's School Board or its designee. Neither this Agreement nor any duties or obligations under this Agreement may be assigned by Company without the prior written consent of Client.
12. TERMINATION: Neither party will have a right to terminate this Agreement for convenience unless a termination fee in the amount of the remaining contract is paid to the Company.
13. SEVERABILITY: The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable, and the invalidity or unenforceability of any one or more of the provisions hereof shall not affect the validity and enforceability of the other provisions hereof.
14. WAIVER OF BREACH: The waiver of either Company or Client of a breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by either Company or Client.
15. AMENDMENTS: No amendment or variation of the terms and conditions of this
Agreement or any attachment hereto shall be valid unless the same is in writing and signed by all of the Parties hereto.

16. THIRD PARTIES: The Client and the Company are the only Parties to this
Agreement and are the only parties entitled to enforce its terms. Nothing in this
Agreement gives, is intended to give, or shall be construed to give or provide, any right or benefit, whether directly or indirectly or otherwise, to third persons.
17. ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This is the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes all prior written and oral communications between them with respect to the subject matter hereof. Any change, alteration or modification of this agreement must be in writing and signed by the parties and cannot be changed or modified orally.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, have hereunto set their respective hands and seals or have caused it to be executed by their duly authorized representatives.
COMPANY: CLIENT:
CESO Transportation, LLC Robbinsdale Area Schools
Nikki Pangerl, Vice President of Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Transportation
Date: Date:

Exhibit A: Scope Of Service
CESO Transportation, LLC (CESO) shall provide transportation services to Robbinsdale Area
Schools (RAS) in the manner and at the pricing described herein from November 1, 2025 to
December 31, 2026.
1. Management Services a. Account Leadership - CESO Transportation will assign an account leader who will be directly responsible to RAS leadership for the ongoing success of this Agreement.
The CESO Transportation account leader will oversee the CESO transportation team assigned to the RAS contract and will be the senior CESO liaison for all matters related to CESO Transportation's contractual obligations and performance. At a minimum, this will include developing and presenting a performance summary during a quarterly contract performance meeting with a designee identified by RAS.
b. Transportation Director - CESO Transportation will assign a transportation director who will be directly accountable to RAS for overseeing all transportation operations.
RAS has the right to approve and/or remove the identified director if there is a cause for concern, and CESO will appoint a replacement in collaboration with RAS. In this role, they will be the primary advocate for RAS to ensure the transportation program operates at the highest possible level of efficiency and effectiveness by overseeing all routing and logistics and determining how the overall operations should run.
CESO will also ensure that RAS administrators receive the information they need to understand the status of the RAS transportation service. The transportation director would oversee onsite RAS staff, partner with the bus vendor, and be available as needed for all RAS administration. The specific functional responsibilities of the transportation director will vary depending on circumstances but will include, at a minimum:
● Providing on-call expertise and advice.
● Oversight and management of all regular education, special education and special transportation routing.
● Management of all vendor relationships and performance.
● Meeting attendance and reporting on a per-request basis, such as for School
Board presentations, Superintendent cabinet meetings, and RAS staff meetings.
● Providing on-demand responsiveness to all levels of RAS administration, such as responding to questions or concerns from building principals.
● Coordinating service delivery plans and daily operations with the RAS bus company.
● Leading investigations for all bus incidents/accidents.
● Leading school closure decisions
● Annual transportation reporting
● Available to work on site at RAS during school days when buses are being deployed for home-to-school transportation. School days shall include, but are
1

not limited to, the regular school year, extended school year, and credit recovery/targeted services summer programming.
● Assistance in boundary work to include walk/no bus zones and school boundaries
2. Term and Termination a. Services shall be provided on an annual basis, commencing on November 1, 2025, and ending on December 31, 2026.
b. The term of this Services Agreement will renew automatically for an additional twelve (12) month annual period, January 1st, 2027, to December 31st, 2027, unless notice of non-renewal is provided by Client in writing not later than October 1 of each year.
c. Starting January 2027 and each January in the following years, there will be a 4%
increase in the fee.
3. Pricing
Transportation Director Services: $10,000.00 per month
2