To: School Board
From: Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Date: January 6, 2025
Re: Discussion of Meeting and Procedures Format
Goal #1: Bring recommendations from Attorneys Mick Waldspurger and Liz Vieira October 10,
2024 memo from professional development into practice
● Maintain focus on students
● Assume positive intent
● Formalities minimize personalities
● Transparency means preparation
● Training
● Business Meetings v. Work/Study Sessions
● Be future-focused
Specifically,
● Formalize Board Reports to become Committee Reports as the purpose of Board Reports is for a Board representative appointed to an internal or external committee or organization to inform the rest of the Board about relevant work of the committee. Because the Board delegates representation with such a group to one or more Board members, those representatives are responsible for reporting back to the Board on the work they do on its behalf.
○ Another recommendation is to assume there is no committee report unless (1) a Board representative on the committee asks to be on the agenda, or (2) another Board member requests that the representative(s) on an identified committee provide an update to the
Board.
● There has also been some discussion about having board reports prepared in writing to assist with meeting preparation and formalizing the reports.
● I would also like to recommend based on our last study session discussion that there is no board report summarizing the board listening time. I heard board members concerned that it is difficult to paraphrase what people have said so I would recommend we discontinue that practice.
● Regarding Listening Time, I would also recommend that we maintain the current structure.
Anne Becker is planning to attend our next Listening Session and determine if there is language in the introductory statements and on the form to support improvements and clarity.
Goal #2: Improved meeting efficiencies
● We will add estimated time allotments to each agenda item to support more focused and efficient meetings. The last two meetings went until midnight and almost 2:00 a.m.
respectively and no one is at their best at that hour.
● The Board will not meet past 10:00 p.m., unless under extenuating circumstances.
● In alignment with the recommendations offered by our legal team regarding holding just one business meeting and one study session per month, I would like to propose working toward the following:

○ The first business meeting each month will be more robust with either a short study (work)
session or no study (work) session.
○ The second business meeting each month will be shorter; however, the study (work)
session will be more robust.
Goal #3: Board Meeting: Sample Agendas
Business Meeting Sample Agenda
● Call to Order
● Roll Call
● Approval of Agenda
● Rdale Proud
● Consent Agenda
● Personnel Items (if needed)
● Unfinished Business (refers to any agenda items or matters that were not fully discussed or resolved during a previous meeting; additionally, the agenda items may be topics that were discussed during a study (work) session and now are being brought forward for action.
● New Business (refers to any topic or item that is being introduced for discussion for the first time, meaning it wasn't previously addressed in prior meetings and is now being brought up for consideration or as information sharing).
● Policy (policies brought forward for consideration will come to the board as a first read, and then as a second read for approval, if no policies are being considered the agenda will indicate, no report).
● Administrative and Board Committee Reports (superintendent report, then administrative, ending with board reports - board will share any committee updates and their reports)
● Future Events/Announcements
● Adjourn
Study (Work) Sessions Sample Agenda (aligned to BOE 2024-25 Goals, Agenda and Working
Document)
● Welcome
● Roll Call
● Purpose and Agenda
● District Governance and Policy
● Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction
● Board Governance
● Superintendent Relations
● Public Engagement
● Information Items
● Adjourn