Minutes of Work Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Reviewed February 21, 2023

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools was held Monday, February 6, 2023. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon Brooks Green, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Fiscal Audit Update
Ukee Dozier, Executive Director of Finance and Bill Lauer from Malloy, Montague, Karnowski, Radosevich & Co., P.A.

presented the fiscal audit update, followed by questions and responses.

Durham Transportation Services

Rick Klaus, Vice President of Operations at Durham Transportation Services came with Andy Reasor, Regional Manager for Northern Illinois/Wisconsin/Minnesota and Clinton Holder, General Manager to apologize for their poor performance, and take questions from the Board.

LETRS Overview
The School Board had an opportunity to hear an overview in regard to Language Essentials for Teachers of Reading and

Spelling (LETRS) with John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services introducing members of the Curriculum and
Instruction team, principals and teachers who led the presentation and responded to questions afterward.

More Resilient Robbinsdale: Update on Trauma Informed Practices
Anne Grui, Assistant Director of Student Services presented on Cognitive Behavioral Intervention for Trauma in Schools
(CBITS), Trauma Informed Skills for Educators (TISE) and Bounce Back - with time provided for questions and

discussion.

Enrollment Projections
Mr. Dozier provided enrollment projection information for the 2023-2024 school year - after which, the table was opened

for discussion and questions.

FY2023 Budget Update
Mr. Dozier gave a brief update on the 2022-2023 budget timeline, the current standings of the general funds prior to the mid-year revisions for all funds and future budgetary considerations in preparation for building the 2023-2024 budget - and

fielded questions after the presentation.

Board Topics
Board topics were tabled for discussion at a later date.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board