MSBA
Standards for School Board Leadership
The Role of the School Board
As the entity legally charged with governing a school district, each school board is responsible to its community for governing efficiently and leading effectively to provide for equitable education, resulting in high student achievement.
The following five standards are essential to being an effective, high-performing school board team.
Standard 1: Conduct and Ethics Standard 2: Vision
The school board, as a whole, provides The school board, with community input, leadership to the community on behalf of the envisions the educational future of the community and then formulates the goals, school district by conducting its business in a fair, respectful, legal, and responsible manner. defines the outcomes, and sets the course for the school district.
An effective, high-performing school board strives to meet the following benchmarks: An effective, high-performing school board strives to meet the following benchmarks:
A. Recognize the school board team consists of school board members and the A. Use clear, focused, attainable, and superintendent and evaluates its measurable goals and outcomes to support gains in student achievement.
performance at least annually.
B. Take full responsibility for its activity B. Develop a strategic plan which includes and behavior at and away from the school well crafted school district belief statements, board table. mission statement, vision statement, goals,
C. Encourage its members to express their and objectives that enable the school board to evaluate school district performance.
individual opinions, respect others'
opinions, and vote according to their C. Regularly monitor the strategic plan to convictions. evaluate progress toward goal achievement
D. Speak with one voice after reaching a and school district success.
decision. D. Ensure that the school district belief statements, mission statement, vision
E. Spend time on board governance work rather than staff work - focuses on the statement, goals, and objectives are reflected ends not the means. in school board policies, mirrored in the
F. Provide for orientation and ongoing budget planning and implementation training for all school board members. efforts, and is supported district-wide.
E. Communicate the strategic plan and the
G. Follow established policies, including the chain-of-command, by directing people progress to the community.
with concerns to the appropriate staff.
H. Set an example of respectful and civil leadership.

MSBA
Standard 3: Structure
The school board, to achieve its vision, establishes organizational and physical structures for student and staff success.
An effective, high-performing school board strives to meet the following benchmarks:
A. Create organizational and physical D. Hold the superintendent accountable for school district performance and compliance structures based on equity in which all with written school board policy.
students and staff have the resources and
E. Delegate the authority to the superintendent supports to maximize achievement.
to recommend and evaluate all school district
B. Advocate and provide for learning through rigorous curriculum, effective technology, staff within the standards established through written school board policies.
and a safe and secure environment.
F. Accept ultimate responsibility for the care,
C. Select and employ one person - the management, fiscal oversight, and control of superintendent - as the school district's the school district while understanding that the chief executive officer to lead and manage the school district. day-to-day operations will be conducted by the staff.
Standard 4: Accountability Standard 5: Advocacy and
The school board is accountable to the
Communication community for constantly monitoring the
The school board advances its vision at the local, conditions affecting the school district as a regional, state, and national levels.
whole.
An effective, high-performing school board strives
An effective, high-performing school board strives to meet the following benchmarks:
to meet the following benchmarks:
A. Focus on community-wide concerns and
A. Recognize the duty to itself and the values that best support equity and student community to determine whether the achievement rather than being influenced by authority delegated to the superintendent is special interests.
being used as intended.
B. Develop communication strategies to build
B. Evaluate the superintendent's performance trust between the school board and the at least annually.
superintendent, staff, students, and
C. Use student achievement data and other community.
indicators when available as the basis
C. Utilize a public relations strategy that for assessing progress toward school district supports the flow of information into and out goals and compliance with school of the school district.
board policies and state and federal laws.
D. Engage and build relationships with both
D. Recognize the distinction between public and private stakeholders.
"monitoring data" (data used by the school
E. Advocate on local, state, and national board to address accountability) and levels.
"management data" (data used by the staff for operations).
Revised 11/27/17