2023-2024 RAS e-Learning Plan
Revised August 9, 2023
Overview
The Robbinsdale Area Schools e-Learning Plan is written to provide continued, standards-aligned, educational experiences to students on days with inclement weather. e-Learning Days provide
Robbinsdale Area Schools an alternative to extending the school year in the event of such weather events. Our plan is developed in accordance with Minnesota Statute 120A.414 which states the following:
Subdivision 1. Days. "e-learning day" means a school day where a school offers full access to online instruction provided by students' individual teachers due to inclement weather. A school district or charter school that chooses to have e-learning days may have up to five e-learning days in one school year. An e-learning day is counted as a day of instruction and included in the hours of instruction under section 120A.41.
Subd. 2. Plan. A school board may adopt an e-learning day plan after meeting and negotiating with the exclusive representative of the teachers. If a charter school's teachers are not represented by an exclusive representative, the charter school may adopt an e-learning day plan after consulting with its teachers. The plan must include accommodations for students without Internet access at home and for digital device access for families without the technology or an insufficient amount of technology for the number of children in the household. A school's e-learning day plan must provide accessible options for students with disabilities under chapter 125A.
Subd. 3. Annual notice. A school district or charter school must notify parents and students of the e-learning day plan at the beginning of the school year.
Subd. 4. Daily notice. On an e-learning day declared by the school, a school district or charter school must notify parents and students at least two hours prior to the normal school start time that students need to follow the e-learning day plan for that day.
Subd. 5. Teacher access. Each student's teacher must be accessible both online and by telephone
(via Voicemail) during normal school hours on an e-learning day to assist students and parents.
Subd. 6. Other school personnel. A school district that declares an e-learning day must continue to pay the full wages for scheduled work hours and benefits of all school employees for the duration of the e-learning period.
This includes the following staff: AFSCME, Cabinet, Casual Employees, Custodians, Education
Assistants, Nutrition Services, Principals, Program Assistants, Program Directors, and Teachers.
During the e-learning period, school employees must be allowed to work from home to the extent practicable, be assigned to work in an alternative location, or be retained on an on-call basis for any potential need.
Reviewed July 24, 2023. School Board approved September 7, 2022.
1

District e-Learning Communication Plan
Robbinsdale Area Schools will communicate with families and stakeholders through the following methods:
● Websites, district and school sites, and traditional media
● Social Media:
○ Twitter
○ Instagram
○ Facebook - district and school pages
● Automated Telephone Message
● Automated Text Notifications
● Email notifications
Early Learning e-learning Plan
The Robbinsdale Area Schools e-Learning Plan is written to provide continued, standards-aligned, educational experiences to students on days with inclement weather. e-Learning Days provide
Robbinsdale Area Schools an alternative to extending the school year in the event of such weather events.
Teachers, administrators, and other licensed professionals are expected to be available by email or phone (via voicemail) during regular school hours.
Early Learning licensed staff are expected to prepare plans for an e-learning day based on the guidelines below.
Early Intervention and Community site based ECSE services:
Staff will reach out to families with scheduled visits directly via email to check in and provide appropriate learning activities.
Preschool, 2-day ECFE, Family Literacy, and ECSE:
Any teacher or specialist who would have a class or student contact time on a declared e-Learning Day is expected to provide learning opportunities for students.
● Information regarding instructional activities will be shared through a virtual platform
(Seesaw) and emailed to families by 8:30 am.
○ 5 Instructional activities can be online or offline.
○ Special Education staff will email families individually to check in and provide any modified or adapted activities in alignment with the general education teacher's plan.
○ Students and families will be expected to engage in the day's learning activities to the best of their ability.
● Completed offline activities may be given to the teacher upon returning to school.
Reviewed July 24, 2023. School Board approved September 7, 2022.
2

1 day evening and daytime Early Childhood Family Education (ECFE):
Classes will be canceled in the event of a declared e-learning day. Teachers and/or Parent Educators will email class participants to confirm the cancellation of the class by 8:30 am.
Attendance:
● A student can be considered in attendance by:
○ Connecting via a phone call or email with the teacher
○ Parent/caregiver confirming via email or Seesaw that the instructional activities have been received
○ Emailing or submitting a completed instructional activity
● Teachers will call home for any student who does not participate in one of the ways listed above.
Accommodations:
● Families can request a printed copy of the instructional activities upon returning to school.
● Families can request a description of the activities via phone call.
● All work completed should be returned to the classroom teacher within one week of returning to school.
● All classroom teachers will collaborate with special education case managers or English
Learner teachers to make appropriate modifications for students in their classes.
Additional Information Regarding Early Learning e-learning days:
● RAS will not be providing district devices or hotspots to Early Learning families
● The following day, teachers will provide time for students to share, draw, or otherwise express what they did on the e-Learning day.
K-5 (Elementary) Plan
Learning Activities: Robbinsdale Area Schools will use current Learning Pathways (Literacy) for students and provide both online and offline options for students (other subjects) to engage in learning on an e-Learning day. Any teacher that would have a class or student contact time on a declared e-Learning day is expected to provide learning opportunities for students.
Communication of Learning Activities:
Learning Pathways will be communicated in the following ways:
● Building grade-level teams will post current Learning Pathway activities for the day on SeeSaw
(K-3rd) and Schoology (4th & 5th) by 8:30 a.m. (Tier I schools) and 10:30 a.m. (Tier III schools).
● Learning Pathway activities will be emailed to building administrators to be posted on their social media sites and school web pages.
● Asynchronous instructional videos will be posted for students in grades 4-5 to access by 8:30
a.m.(Tier I schools) and 10:30 a.m. (Tier III schools).
● Teachers in grades K-3 will email Learning Pathway to all families in addition to posting online.
Reviewed July 24, 2023. School Board approved September 7, 2022.
3

Teachers, principals, and other licensed professionals will be available by email or phone (via voicemail) during regular school hours. Staff contact information can be found in the RAS Staff
Directory. All communication requests will be responded to in a timely manner during school hours.
All communications via email will contain the teacher's name, grade level, and school name to assist families with multiple children.
Students will be expected to complete all activities for all areas normally met that day. Completed activities can be posted to SeeSaw (K-3rd) and Schoology (4th & 5th) or delivered upon returning to school with a signature or note from whoever supervised learning activities in the event that printing the assignment/activity is not possible.
Attendance:
● Parents/guardians can respond to the email from the teacher or respond through SeeSaw (or
Schoology, if appropriate) that they received the Learning Pathway activities.
○ The teacher will attempt to call home for any student who does not respond via email.
The teacher will record the call in the "Contact Log" in Infinite Campus.
○ Attendance should be completed by 10:15 am (Tier I, 12:15 pm Tier 3).
● Parents/guardians should call the school office if they do not have reliable internet access.
● Adventure Club sites will email appropriate school offices with students who are in attendance.
● All absences will be marked in Infinite Campus as Unexcused. It is the responsibility of the student's parent/guardian to request that absences are excused as stated in RAS Administrative
Procedure 503AP.
○ Attendance will be changed from an unexcused absence to an excused absence within
7 days of the declared e-Learning day by returning the assigned work from the e-Learning day or sending a written note.
Accommodations:
● Families can request a printed copy of the Learning Pathway activities upon returning to school.
● Families can request a description of the Learning Pathway activities via phone call.
● Adventure Club will provide digital access to students in attendance.
● All Learning Pathway activities should be returned to the classroom teacher within one week of returning to school.
● All classroom teachers will collaborate with special education case managers to make appropriate modifications for students in their classes.
The next class day after e-Learning in elementary classrooms:
● Provide time for students to share, draw, write about, or otherwise express what they did on the e-Learning day.
6-12 (Secondary) Plan
Learning Activities: Any teacher that would have a class or student contact time on a declared e-Learning Day is expected to provide learning opportunities for students. All secondary classes in
Robbinsdale Area Schools will utilize Schoology to post assignment information and lesson resources.
Reviewed July 24, 2023. School Board approved September 7, 2022.
4

This work may include but is not limited to, online discussions, asynchronous instructional videos, quizzes, web-based and/or print assignments, and readings. This work is also expected to be a continuation of content from the previous day.
Communication of Learning Activities:
Teachers will post an "Update" on Schoology for their classes that includes all directions for the day, tasks to complete, and a clear statement of the day's learning target(s). This information may also be sent home via Schoology, email, or Infinite Campus.
Teachers, principals, and other licensed professionals will be available by email or phone (via voicemail) during regular school hours. Staff contact information can be found in the RAS Staff
Directory. All communication requests will be responded to in a timely manner during school hours.
All communications via email will contain the teacher's name, grade level, and school name to assist families with multiple children.
Attendance:
● To be counted as present for an e-Learning Day:
○ A student must "Like" the UPDATE posted by the classroom teacher outlining the work for the day. This acknowledges that they have seen the task(s) to be completed for the day.
○ A parent/guardian may respond to the email from the classroom teacher verifying that they have seen the task(s) to be completed for the day.
○ Teachers will post attendance to Infinite Campus by the end of the school day.
■ 3:25 for high schools
■ 4:05 for middle schools
● Parents/guardians should call the attendance line for the school office if they do not have reliable internet access.
● All absences will be marked in Infinite Campus as Unexcused. It is the responsibility of the student's parent/guardian to request that absences are excused as stated in RAS Administrative
Procedure 503AP.
○ Attendance will be changed from an unexcused absence to an excused absence within
7 days of the declared e-Learning day by returning the assigned work from the e-Learning day or sending a written note.
Accommodations:
● All classroom teachers will collaborate with special education case managers to make appropriate modifications for students in their classes as needed.
● Self-contained classrooms may adhere to the general education model or they may use the learning pathway model used in elementary classrooms as deemed appropriate by case managers and self-contained classroom teachers.
● Any other service provider that would be working with a student on an e-Learning day must send an assignment or task via email and document this in the "Contact Log" in Infinite Campus
Reviewed July 24, 2023. School Board approved September 7, 2022.
5

Robbinsdale Academy Programs:
Included Programs: Alternative Placement, Credit Recovery, Edge, and Highview
Robbinsdale Academy classes that do not use Schoology will adhere to the following additional guidelines:
● Students and their parent(s)/guardian(s), who are enrolled in any of the Robbinsdale Academy
Programs will receive an email from each of their teachers outlining the expectations for the day.
● Students or parents/guardians will need to respond to this email for attendance purposes.
Post-Secondary Enrollment Option (PSEO) Students:
Students who are enrolled in PSEO will be contacted by their enrolled high school principal or designee informing the student that they must contact their PSEO instructors for details of their classes that day.
The next school day after e-Learning in secondary classrooms:
Teachers will have the following available to students:
● Time to work on tasks that were not completed on the e-Learning day
● Time to deepen understanding and engage in richer tasks for those who completed their tasks on the e-Learning day.
These should be done in ways that continue learning for all students in the classroom.
Adult Basic Education (ABE)
Learning Activities: Any teacher that would have a class or student contact time on a declared e-Learning Day is expected to provide learning opportunities for students. All classes provided through
ABE will adhere to their state-approved Distance Learning guidelines. This work may include but is not limited to, online discussions, quizzes, web-based and/or print assignments, and readings. This work is also expected to be a continuation of content from the previous day.
Communication of Learning Activities:
Teachers will communicate expectations with their students via email and telephone calls on declared e-Learning days.
Teachers, ABE Director, and other licensed professionals will be available by email or phone (via voicemail) during regular school hours. Staff contact information can be found on the Adult Academic
Program webpage. All communication requests will be responded to in a timely manner during school hours.
All communications via email will contain the teacher's name and school name to assist students who might also receive emails from their children's teachers.
Attendance:
Student attendance will be counted in accordance with Distance Learning practices that are already approved for use in Adult Basic Education by the State of Minnesota.
Accommodations:
Reviewed July 24, 2023. School Board approved September 7, 2022.
6

The Distance Learning plan that is already in place for Adult Basic Education programming accounts for necessary accommodations for their students.
Robbinsdale Transition Center Plan (RTC)
Learning Activities: Teachers at Robbinsdale Transition Center (RTC) will collaborate to create a unified document that has all learning activities for students. Any teacher that would have a class or student contact time on a declared e-Learning Day is expected to provide learning opportunities for students.
Robbinsdale Area Schools will utilize learning pathways for students that provide both online and offline options for students to engage in learning.
Learning pathways will be revisited monthly during the months of November through April to ensure that the work being completed aligns with the current topics of study.
Communication of Learning Activities:
Learning opportunities will be emailed to building administrators and directly to students and their families.
Teachers, principals, and other licensed professionals will be available by email or phone (via voicemail) during regular school hours. Staff contact information can be found in the RAS Staff
Directory. All communication requests will be responded to in a timely manner during school hours.
All communications via email will contain the teacher's name and school name to assist families with multiple children.
Students will be expected to complete ONE option for each course. Completed activities should be returned upon returning to school. Parents/Adult Students have the option of writing down the completed learning activities in the event that printing them is not possible.
Attendance:
● Parents/Adult Students can respond to the email from the teacher that they received the learning activities.
○ The teacher will attempt to call home for any student who does not respond via email.
The teacher will record the call in the "Contact Log" in Infinite Campus.
○ Attendance should be completed by 10:15 am.
● Parents/Adult Students should call the school office if they do not have reliable internet access.
● All absences will be marked in Infinite Campus as Unexcused. It is the responsibility of the student's parent/guardian to request that absences are excused as stated in RAS Administrative
Procedure 503AP.
○ Attendance will be changed from an unexcused absence to an excused absence within
7 days of the declared e-Learning day by returning the assigned work from the e-Learning day or sending a written note.
Accommodations:
Reviewed July 24, 2023. School Board approved September 7, 2022.
7

● Families/Adult Students can request a printed copy of the learning activities upon returning to school.
● All learning activities should be returned to the course teacher within three days of returning to school.
Plan monitored and reviewed by:
Bridget Hall, Director of Curriculum and Instruction
Matt Pletcher, Director of Curriculum and Instruction
John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services
Marti Voight, Assistant Superintendent
Dr. Sue Holtz, Director of Technology
Toni Boyden, Director of Student Services
Kelley Sabako, Student Systems, and Enrollment Coordinator
Emilie Levinson, Director of Early Learning
Tracy Ogren, Special Education Supervisor
Jen Ouellette-Schramm, Director of Adult Academic Programs
Robbinsdale Area Schools Executive Cabinet
Reviewed July 24, 2023. School Board approved September 7, 2022.
8