ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved June 4, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, May 20, 2024, beginning at 7:02 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www,rdale,org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

MOTION: Director Vento moved to approve the agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Sharing the Success
2024 Apollo and Athena Award Winners
Anthony Williams - Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities, Shaunece Smith - Cooper
High School Principal and Larry Tate - Armstrong Athletic Director introduced the following Apollo and Athena Award winners:
e Apollo - Dayton Franke from Armstrong and Kameron Fox from Cooper e Athena - Caitlyn Osanai from Armstrong and Keira Snapko from Cooper
These awards are given annually to athletes who have distinguished themselves in athletics and academics.
Next year RAS will also begin recognizing the top adapted student athletes.

Interim Superintendent's Report
Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent
Interim Superintendent Voight welcomed two student groups to present to the School Board.
e Zachary Lane Elementary Aspire Group
Allison Hood brought her group to read the letters they wrote after a research project on school start times, and how early start is difficult for elementary students. The students answered questions from the Board afterwards.
e RAS Youth Council
Anthony Williams, Nicole Plagge - Youth Leadership Coordinator, and Dr. Anne Beaton - AP Seminar Teacher
& BARR Coordinator introduced the RAS Youth Council, who provided a presentation on what they have been working on this year - researching student academic achievement, student mental health and school safety and security. They took questions from the Board following the presentation.

Operations

A. Action: Conference and Travel Request - Sharon E. Brooks, School Board Director
Director Brooks requested the Board approve funding for her to attend the National School Boards
Association (NSBA) Council of Urban Boards of Education (CUBE) Conference in Las Vegas in October.
MOTION: Director Brooks moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett and Brooks. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. Said motion failed.

B. Action: Resolution Accepting April 2024 Donations
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Action: Policy 103: Complaints - Students, Employees, Parents, Other Persons
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Action: Policy 526: Hazing Prohibition

MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Director Bassett abstained from voting. Said motion was declared duly passed.

E. Action: Policy 529: Staff Notification of Violent Behavior by Students
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval, Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

F. Action: Policy 598: Early Entrance to Kindergarten
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval, Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

G. Non-Action: FY25 Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM)
Alissa Pier, Interim Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation and Michael Hart from
PMA Securities, LLC were available to answer any further questions from the Board, with the recommendation to move the LTFM 10-year plan to action at the June 4, 2024 Business Meeting.

H. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Update
The Board had a closed session at 5:00 p.m. tonight to have a lockdown drill with Bo Powell, Director of
Security. The committee has not met again yet, but will be setting another meeting date soon. The Board is awaiting a debrief after investigation of the incidents at Armstrong High School.

|. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee update.
Committee members appreciated the last transportation update from Carrie Johnson, Director of
Transportation. The committee is working on a timeline for their work, and will be considering falling enrollment. They plan on pulling together stakeholders for brainstorming on facilities, after the internal assessment of them has been completed.

J. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Update
Chair Bowman and Director Evans-Becker have continued organizing our policy and procedure work. Director
Vento is working with Chair Bowman on the 200 policy series, and will be bringing them to the Board for review prior to July 1.

K. Policy Committee Update
The committee met on April 24, and anticipates bringing five more policies for review on June 4. They will be meeting again on May 22, 2024.

L. Student Achievement Update - Advancement Via Individual Determination (AVID)
Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs introduced Amanda Lieser, AVID
Coordinator. Ms. Lieser let the Board know the students originally scheduled to present would share their impact statements with them soon. She shared information about the program, which is in our middle and high schools. AVID's mission is to close the opportunity gap by preparing all students for college readiness and success in a global society.

M. Human Resources Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources had provided a written update regarding our recruitment efforts, and was available for questions.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Vento seconded the motion.

Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Holmes and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Holmes facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. fifteen individuals in regard to: concerns with health service cuts, programmatic changes within the district (i.e. PMS immersion schedule), staffing cuts at PMS, lack of student voices being heard and students being disrespected at PMS, transparency of Cabinet and administration, PMS afternoon bus in neighborhood, lack of time for secondary students to eat lunch, concerns about newly hired Director of
Facilities, transparency about the district's music programs, levy survey, business office contract, two finger salute, communications and retention of great employees in DIE, bullying, racial slurs and targeting.

Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Chair Bowman moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks seconded the motion.

Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
10:10 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive AEE to the Superintendent and School Board

Date: ZL ALAA

Signed.

'Dr. Greta ie Laver School Board Clerk, ISD 281