Robbinsdale Area Public

Schools
2024 Community Survey Discussion

The Morris Leatherman Company

survey Methodology

2024 Robbinsdale Area Public Schools

Telephone Survey of:

a 400 Randomly Selected District residents

a 400 Randomly Selected District parents

Margin of error: +/-5.0% in 95 out of 100 cases for each sample.

The random sample is pulled from a database and includes landline and cellphone numbers.

All calls are completed by MLC trained and supervised personnel.
Appointments are scheduled to insure a representative sample that is not reweighted.

Quotas are established based on updated Census information for key demographics:
home ownership, presence of children and seniors and geographic location.

The Morris Leatherman Company

survey Content
2024 Robbinsdale Area Public Schools

a The survey will assess attitudes and opinions about the Robbinsdale Area Schools on four areas:

District perceptions and atmospherics

Technology levy renewal

Communications and messaging

Demographics

SE eS wf

The Morris Leatherman Company

ourvey Schedule
2024 Robbinsdale Area Public Schools

Planning with District to establish topics.

Drafting and approval of final survey. (2 to 4 weeks)
Pre-testing of survey (2 days)

Completion of all fieldwork (2 weeks)

Computer analysis and preparation of frequencies
(2 weeks)

a Presentation

a Written Report of Findings

SE Fe FF FF &

The Morris Leatherman Company

Quantitative vs. Qualitative Research
2024 Robbinsdale Area Public Schools

Quantitative Research: Telephone Survey
« Everyone with a telephone can be randomly selected to participate.
« Allows a statistically valid margin of error to be established for the sample size.

Qualitative Research: Mail-out or Online Surveys.

Access to the Internet or use of mail impacts potential sample.
Respondent's participation is based on self selection.

Results are not projectable to the entire universe, but only represents the attitudes and opinions of those who choose to participate.

a

f=)

The Morris Leatherman Company