Robbinsdale Area Schools
Independent School District 281
Adopted: May 7, 2025
103 - COMPLAINTS: STUDENTS, EMPLOYEES, PARENTS, OTHER PERSONS
I. PURPOSE
The school district takes all concerns or complaints by students, employees, parents or other persons seriously. If a specific complaint procedure is provided within any other policy of the school district, the specific procedure shall/will/must be followed in reference to such a complaint.
If a specific complaint procedure is not provided, the purpose of this policy is to provide a procedure that may be used.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. Students, parents, employees, or other persons may report concerns or complaints to the school district. While written reports are encouraged, a complaint may be made orally. Any employee receiving a complaint shall advise the principal or immediate supervisor of the receipt of the complaint. The supervisor shall make an initial determination as to the seriousness of the complaint and whether the matter should be referred to the superintendent. A person may file a complaint at any level of the school district; i.e., principal, superintendent or school board. However, persons are encouraged to file a complaint at the building level when appropriate.
B. Depending upon the nature and seriousness of the complaint, the supervisor or other administrator receiving the complaint shall determine the nature and scope of the investigation or follow-up procedures. If the complaint involves serious allegations, the matter shall promptly be referred to the superintendent, who shall determine whether an internal or external investigation should be conducted. In either case, the superintendent shall determine the nature and scope of the investigation and designate the person responsible for investigation or follow-up relating to the complaint. The designated investigator shall ascertain details concerning the complaint and respond promptly to the appropriate administrator concerning the status or outcome of the matter.
C. The appropriate administrator shall respond in writing to the complaining party concerning the outcome of the investigation or follow up, including any appropriate action or corrective measure that was taken. The superintendent shall be copied on the correspondence and consulted in advance of the written response when appropriate. The response to the complaining party shall be consistent with the rights of others pursuant to the applicable provisions of Minnesota Statutes chapter 13 (Minnesota Government Data
Practices Act) or other law.
DRAFT
III. PROCESS
The superintendent is directed to develop complaint procedures for existing policies of the School
District that meet the state requirements established in law or rule.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. Ch. 13 (Minnesota Government Data Practices Act)
Cross References: RAS Equity Policy 102.1

RAS Policy 206 (Public Participation in School Board Meetings/Complaints about
Persons at School Board Meetings and Data Privacy Considerations)
RAS Policy 403 (Discipline, Suspension, and Dismissal of School District
Employees)
RAS Policy 413 (Harassment and Violence)
RAS Policy 514 (Bullying Prohibition)
RAS Equity Policy 102.1
DRAFT