Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Reviewed XXXX
A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, May 6, 2024 at 9:20 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.
Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.
Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.
FY25 Budget Introduction and Discussion
Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance
Ms. Verbrugge presented the preliminary FY25 budget reductions to the General Fund only. She and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent, answered questions from the School Board. The full FY25 budget will be presented in the May 20, 2024
Work Session.
Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee Update
The committee had provided a written update, which was reviewed with assistance from Carrie Johnson, Director of
Transportation and Alissa Pier, Interim Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation. Discussion followed.
Board Topics
● Superintendent Search Update
Barb Dorn, Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) Superintendent Search Team
Ms. Dorn stated there are five candidates who have submitted their applications, and a few others in the queue.
The applicants will be available for School Board review beginning Tuesday, May 7, 2024 at 8:00 a.m. The following timeline was determined:
> Special Work Session on Wednesday, May 15, 2024 at 7:30 p.m. to select candidates for round one interviews, and determine: interview questions, stakeholder representation and interviewee process and procedures
> Special Business Meeting on Thursday, May 23, 2024 at 7:00 p.m. for first round of interviews
> Special Business Meeting on Tuesday, May 28, 2024 at 7:00 p.m. for second round of interviews, if necessary
● School Board Budget
The School Board was presented with a copy of their most current budget to actual report, with a request from Chair
Bowman to review and provide feedback for further discussion at a later date. The School Board requested detailed reports for: Contracted Services, Memberships/Dues/Licenses, and Travel/Conventions/Conferences to review for discussion at the Work Session on May 20, 2024.
Other
No items presented.
Work Session adjourned at 12:55 a.m. on Tuesday, May 7, 2024.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
1