District 281 Youth
Council Update
May 2026
Dr. Anne Beaton

Purpose
The purpose of this presentation is to introduce this year's
281 Youth Council (281YC), share our research process, and offer recommendations to Robbinsdale District Leadership
(School Board, Leadership Team, Learning Leaders).

281 Youth Council Mission Statement
To work on behalf of the District 281 student body to improve the overall experience for every student by incorporating youth voices into the decision making process.

Members
Members of the 281YC are change agents in their building and across the district, leading the way with youth-centered systems change.
● Amar Reshad
● Barbara Rodriguez Zaqueros
● Brenna Heinz
● Brier Conzemius
● David Johnson
● Ephrata Woldeamanuel
● Homa Bedhaso
● Kyiaa Cooper
● Nikita Sallis

Our Research
Phase 1:
Vision 2030 & School board decisions
Student Lived Experience: "Transition"
Sense of Belonging, Transition, Change
We wondered: Can we support students' sense of belonging during transition?
Phase 2:
We read: schools in transition, sense of belonging, focus groups
We designed our research approach to help learn how students feel
Focus Groups & Observations- 3rd and 7th grade students at 5 schools
Phase 3:
We Analyzed our data to ID themes: Identity, Friendships, Learning, Arts
We Read More: The power of art in schools, the impact of school closure, adolescent friendships, feeling safe and valued increases learning
We Examined: ISD 281 Student and Caregiver Survey Data
Final Phase:
We named priorities and recommendations & prepared to present

Context: Transition Can Be Isolating
Until their sense of belonging is secure,
[students] will not reach anything close to their full potential [or] feel safe enough to bring out their gifts, to experiment with their identity to find what is authentic to them, or to take the risks and apply the energy needed to reach their academic potential."
-Chris Balme,
Finding the Magic in Middle School

Research Question & Methods
How can we support students' sense of belonging during transition?
Focus Group Questions (sample)
1. What is your favorite spot here at school? Why?
2. What are you most proud of about your school?
3. What do you look forward to each day when you come to school?
4. What is your favorite way to learn?

New Identity
"[We want] a group where we talk about the community and how we can make it better."-FAIR student
"Connection happens when a school community collectively feels supported, respected, and accepted by one another[...]Similar to school culture, student belonging isn't something that can be left to chance. School belonging happens by intention."
-New Leaders, 2024
"We've found that having a best friend at school gives students a reason to show up." -Gallup, n.d.

Friendships
Q: What is your own view on the new kids coming in?
"I mean, they're my friends."
- Sandburg student
"I'm gonna miss my friends."
- Neill student
"Friendships foster a supportive
Friendship was environment for collaboration and mentioned knowledge-sharing[...]thereby
65 times contributing to a successful throughout the academic experience."
focus groups
-National Library of Medicine, 2024

.
Protecting Student Learning
"Students who experience acceptance are more highly motivated and engaged"
- Osterman, 2000
Sense of school belonging is a significant driver of academic achievement
- Sakellariou , 2025
"Everyone has like, their own certain little group [...] it's kind of hard to go join in another one, because they've already been talking for a while"
- Sandburg Student

Protecting Student Learning
Students want more structure in their classes
"I feel like students could be disruptive. The teacher's, like, flexible with it. Like, doesn't
Students benefit from having problem solve it"
cohesion of expectations
- FAIR Student
"When [students] are not just working for the sake of a grade or to check off an assignment on a to-do list, they are more likely to become academically successful"
- Pope & Miles, 2022

Integrating Arts, Clubs, & Sports
"Specifically the arts, because experiencing things helps you feel connected to the school, because you learn new things with other students."
-FAIR student
"Everyday I look forward to going
Flex Time outside"
- Sonnesyn student

Integrating Arts, Clubs, & Sports
'Extracurricular activities have the potential to promote positive youth development by providing young people with opportunities to pursue their interests, [...] and build new friendships.'
- Eva Oberle et al.
- Sonnesyn student art
Students at every school wished they had a stage.
- FAIR Middle School's stage

Priorities
Blending school identities, not assimilating
Opportunities for students to develop friendships
School-wide clarity of expectations
Recommendations
Provide time in-school (weekly) to do club activities
In-class opportunities for students to meet and connect with new peers
Create ways to show school pride

Questions?