To: Board of Education
From: Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee
Date: Mar 28, 2024
Re: Meeting with Police Chiefs & SRO Update
On Wednesday March 27, 2024, the Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee met with Police Chiefs Fadden (Plymouth), Foley (Robbinsdale), Hoyt (New Hope), and Revering (Crystal) regarding the School Resource Officer bill that was signed on March 24, 2024.
The conversation included discussion surrounding the language used in the bill, mandatory training for school resource officers (SRO's) as well as concerns surrounding assigned responsibilities and authority in schools.
Interim Superintendent Voight and Director Powell, along with the Police
Chiefs, recommend the Board reinstate SRO's into Cooper High School,
Armstrong High School and Plymouth Middle School as soon as possible.
The following information was provided:
● SRO's from the cities within District 281 all are required to complete one week of training from the National Association of School Resource
Officers. Details on the training can be found here NASRO Basic
Training
● Use of force in schools is stated by the Chiefs as "rare" and as a last resort. The ban on chokeholds remains. Additional information on MN
Statute 609.06 Authorized Use of Force can be found here MN Statute
609.06
● Handout provided by Police Chief Hoyt overviewing the recent legislative changes. Handout can be found here PATROL Handout
● A template SRO policy is being developed but will not be available until approximately December 2024
1

● By January 15, 2025 the new law requires that SRO's receive specific training on various topics including de-escalation, responding to mental health crises as well as the impact of childhood trauma on juvenile behavior. Details can be found here CHAPTER 78--H.F.No. 3489.
Chiefs stated their respective departments and officers already receive extensive training including the week long National Association of
School Resource Officer training
● The new law states SRO's are NOT employees of the District which means officer may use restraint if necessary
● SRO's do NOT wear police uniforms but DO wear body cameras
● SRO's cannot be used to discipline students for violating school policy
● Police Chiefs stated each have incident review processes in place when an SRO report is filed ex. Report filed - passed to immediate supervisor to review for policy violations and incident details - final review by
Captain
● The decision of when to engage a SRO is determined by each school administrator. SRO's will engage based on their training and professional experience and will NOT be directed by the administrator. Ex. administrator is NOT allowed to direct an SRO to 'put their hands on' a student
● New Hope Police Chief Hoyt meets two times a week with a student
Multicultural Advisory Committee (MAC) consisting of approximately
11-12 students. Students set the agenda and ask questions of the Police
Chief. Discussions include: problems the students are seeing, racial issues, questions to patrol officers and most recently testifying at the
MN Legislature in support of SRO's
● Director Powell is a participant of the Robbinsdale Police Chief's
Multicultural Advisory Committee
● New Hope Police Chief also works with a community Multicultural
Advisory Committee which includes staff from District 281 as well as other community members such as pastors and professionals
● $54,254 ($13,564 per SRO) is the cost to place SRO's in CHS (2), AHS and
PMS for the remainder of the school year (approximately 40 days). AHS
SRO's will support PMS.
2

● FAIR Crystal has not had a SRO in use since approximately 2019 due to decreased enrollment. Currently has a Jr. Officer 'checking in' with the school. Chief Revering asked Interim Superintendent Voight to consider if a part-time officer is needed at the school
● The city of Robbinsdale currently does NOT have staffing for a SRO to be placed in RMS. A patrol officer does stay in contact with the school administration and some staff. Chief Foley stated he may have adequate staffing by September 2024 to place a SRO
The above, along with next steps, will be discussed in greater detail during
Tuesday, April 2nd's Board work session.
Thank you for your attention to this memo.
3