RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE PAYMENT OF SPECIFIC STATEMENTS IN
ADVANCE OF BOARD APPROVAL
introduced the following resolution and move its adoption:
BE IT RESOLVED by the School Board of Independent School District No. 281, Robbinsdale,
Minnesota, as follows:
It is recommended that and consistent with Minnesota Statute 123B.11, 123B.02
and 471.38, the Chief Financial Officer be hereby vested with the authority and responsibility to make the following payment in advance of board approval for the
2024-2025 school year.
Payment or expense claims against the school district for:
1. Utility bills
2. Contracted transportation invoices
3. Registration and travel expenses
4. Employee group insurance payments
5. Employee retirement plan payments
6. Payments necessary to be eligible for discount privileges
7. Postage meter and bulk mailing payments
8. Officials, referees and judges fees
9. Special program speakers fees, consulting fees and contracted personnel service fees
10. Tuition payments for resident students
11. Payments necessary to meet the 35 day statute
The Chief Financial Officer is hereby vested with the authority and responsibility to initiate electronic fund transfers including payment of interest, payroll bank account transfers, state and federal tax withholding, state sales tax, electronic fund transfer payments covering investments, bond principal and interest, tax anticipation certificate principal and interest, loan principal and interest fiscal agent service charges.
1. The disbursing bank shall keep on file a certified copy of this authorization which allows electronic fund transfers.
2. The initiator of the electronic transfer shall be identified for each transaction.
3. The initiator shall document the request and obtain approval from the Chief Financial
Officer.
4. A written confirmation of the transaction shall be made no later than one business day after the transaction and shall be used to support the transaction.
Motion was seconded by , and upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof:

And the following voted against the same:
Whereupon said resolution was declared duly adopted.
By: By:
Chair Clerk
Date Date