DRAFT
2025 Legislative Platform
Legislative Action Coalition lac.rdale.org
EXCELLENCE IS OUR STANDARD
Robbinsdale Area Schools is committed to ensuring every student develops their unique potential and graduates career and college ready. To support comprehensive academic achievement and prepare students to be lifelong learners, we urge the Governor and Legislators to address the following critical issues:
Increase the formula to ensure districts have adequate, reliable, and predictable funding to provide programs that ensure every student develops their unique potential
● Increase Local optional per pupil revenue to recover ground lost to inflation since the program was established in 2014. What is the district's experience?
● Increase funding to cover the actual cost of providing Special Education and English Learning services. For the
2023-2024 school year, Robbinsdale
Area Schools has budgeted $19.4
million from the general fund to cover unreimbursed Special Education costs.
____________ was budgeted to cover
English Learning services.
● Increase the Safe Schools Levy and expand its allowable usage to address the growing mental health needs of students. The Safe Schools levy amount has remained at $36 per the district's adjusted pupil units since 2014.
Times have changed dramatically. Our students deserve the school-based mental health services needed to navigate the effects of COVID and increasing social pressures. Allow school districts to make the needed building modifications including purchasing systems and equipment to keep our buildings safe.
● Increase funding for Early Childhood and Pre-K programming to ensure all children are ready for school. The
$1.8 million investment for Robbinsdale Area Schools provides children and families with robust PreK
programming. Research shows it reduces the achievement gap, need for special education and remediation, improves health outcomes, and reduces the need for social services, while lowering criminal justice costs and improving self-sufficiency and productivity.
Enhance Educator Workforce
● Maintain and expand pathways to teacher licensure, including strengthening programs such as the
Grow Your Own and teacher apprenticeship programs to recruit and retain teachers of color and teachers in shortage areas. Maintain the tiered licensing system to ensure multiple pathways for licensure. Include comments about the district's current experience.
Questions or additional information contact anthony_williams@rdale.org or 763-504-
8013