( R E ) D I S C O V E R R D A L E
MISSION DISTRICT VISION
Robbinsdale Area Schools is committed to
The mission of ensuring every student graduates career,
Robbinsdale Area articulated skilled trades and college ready.
Schools is to
We believe each student has limitless inspire and possibilities and we strive to ignite the educate all learners potential in every student.
to develop their
We expect high intellectual performance from unique potential all our students.
and positively
We are committed to ensuring an equitable contribute to their and respectful educational experience for every student, family and staff member.
community.
STRATEGIC THEMES PRIORITY OUTCOMES
District priority work and goals focused on GROUNDED IN EQUITY
strategic themes will help achieve our
Improve achievement for students mission for each student.
of color
All students are ready for school
Academic Achievement
A
Every child reading at or above grade-level
Academic and social-emotional
Student Engagement and
B
growth in middle grades
Wellness
Student engagement in school and learning
Collaboration and Partnerships
C
Student support from families to learn and achieve
Clear path and readiness for career,
Staff Investment and Impact college and life
D
S T R A T E G I C P L A N
Believe. Belong. Become.

2 0 2 4 - 2 5 P R I O R I T I E S
A
Academic Achievement
Enhance cultural relevance of curriculum for students
Enhance an equitable learning system from early childhood to adults
Deepen preparation for life, college and career
B Student Engagement and Wellness
Improve student-staff connection
Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety
C Collaboration and Partnerships
Strengthen mutual communication and responsiveness with all stakeholders
Expand equitable inclusion and influence of student, family, staff, and community voice
D
Staff Investment and Impact
Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive, and welcoming
Increase consistency and accountability for common district practices
S T R A T E G I C P L A N
Believe. Belong. Become.