Note: Text is highlighted in yellow if it is contained in, or is substantially similar to information in the written materials, provided in conjunction with the October 23, 2024
Board training by Mick Waldspurger, of Squires, Waldspurger & Mace, P.A., entitled:
EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE: UNDERSTANDING THE RESPONSIBILITIES,
LIMITS, AND RISKS OF BEING A SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER
Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Policy 209 Code of Ethics
Adopted:
209 CODE OF ETHICS
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this Policy is to articulate those standards of conduct to which all Board members must adhere in order to govern ethically, legally, effectively, and with integrity.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
All Board members, individually and as a collective, must conduct themselves in accordance with the Code of Ethics and must be held accountable, and hold fellow Board members accountable, if they fail to do so.
III. ETHICAL CONDUCT AND ACTIONS
A. Board members must:
1. comply with all federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and Board Bylaws and policies;
2. make decisions and take actions which:
a. are evidence-based; b. in the best interests of students and the school community; c. are designed to advance the District's Mission, Vision, Strategic Priorities, and
Priority Outcomes Grounded in Equity; d. are informed by multiple perspectives from both inside and outside the District;
DRAFT
e. represent good stewardship of District financial and human resources; and f. were arrived at only after the opportunity for open and transparent dialogue between Board members to the extent allowed by law and exigent circumstances.
3. in good faith, and with due diligence, identify, immediately disclose, refrain from directly or indirectly influencing or participating in, and recuse themselves from
Board decisions or actions when:
1

a. the member has an actual, potential, or perceived conflict of interest (such as a financial interest); b. the member's failure to do so could be reasonably expected to create the appearance of impropriety; or c. the Board, as the final arbiter of what constitutes a conflict of interest and whether one exists in a particular situation, has determined that a member has a conflict of interest.
B. Board members must not:
1. subvert, undermine, or unreasonably interfere or attempt to interfere with the lawful business, decisions, or actions of the Board;
2. use their position to financially benefit or to advance the business interests or personal priorities of themselves or their friends or relatives;
3. engage in personal attacks;
4. undermine public trust and confidence in Board members or the Board as a whole;
5. speak or act in the name of the Board, unless specifically authorized to do so by one's official duties as outlined in the Board Bylaws, or delegated authority from the
Board as a whole;
6. intentionally violate their fiduciary duty to the Board by, for example, disclosing, whether directly or indirectly:
a. private or confidential information to a plaintiff in a lawsuit against the District; b. confidential information about labor negotiations; c. confidential information discussed in a closed session; and/or d. private educational or personnel data without the legal right or authorization to do so.
7. Seek or accept payment or reimbursement for expenses, including legal, vendor, consultant, travel, lodging, meal and/or conference registrations, incurred without prior Board approval.
IV. ACCOUNTABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE CODE OF ETHICS
DRAFT
Board members who violate the Code of Ethics must be held accountable. After conducting an investigation and consulting with legal counsel, the Board has a number of options for addressing issues and holding individual Board members accountable, including: requiring training or retraining; censuring; requesting their resignation; ending or suspending their compensation; and/or removal from the Board in accordance with the law.
All Robbinsdale School Board members must sign, annually, a statement certifying that they have read, understand, and agree to abide by the Code of Ethics, and affirm their commitment to hold themselves
2

and other Board members accountable for any violation(s) of it.
The following references include some of the laws, regulations, and/or policies which are related to the topics contained in this Policy. This is not an exhaustive list and is provided for information purposes only.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 123B.02, Subd. 1 (General Powers of Independent School Districts)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.09 (Boards of Independent School Districts)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.143, Subd. 1 (Superintendent)
Minn. Stat. § 471.87 (Public Officers,; Interest in Contract; Penalty)
DRAFT
Minn. Stat. § 471.88, Subds. 2, 3, 4, 5, 12, 13, and 21 (Exceptions)
Minn. Stat. § 471.89 (Contract, When Void)
Op. Atty. Gen. 437-A-4, March 15, 1935
Op. Atty. Gen. 90-C-5, July 30, 1940
Op. Atty. Gen. 90-A, August 14, 1957
Cross References: None
3