2025 School Board Director Application
Instructions
Please fill out each section of this application. Once you click "submit" at the end, the form will be automatically sent to the School Board. Upon receipt, a confirmation email will be sent to the email address provided. If you have any questions, contact Dr. Greta
Evans-Becker, School Board Chair, at greta_evans-becker@rdale.org or Molly Olson,
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board, at molly_olson@rdale.org.
Please complete application by Thursday, November 6, 2025 at 5:00 PM.
Thank you!
* Indicates required question
Candidate Information
1. Name *
2. Street Address *

3. City * Dropdown
Mark only one oval.
Brooklyn Center
Brooklyn Park
Crystal
Golden Valley
New Hope
Plymouth
Robbinsdale
4. Phone Number *
5. Email Address *
Please respond to the following questions:
6. Why do you want to be a member of the ISD 281 school board? *

7. Describe what you believe are the three greatest strengths of the school district. *
8. Describe what you believe are the three most significant issues facing the *
school district.
9. Please describe how you would support the school district as a board member. *
10. Describe your education, work experience and other activities that have *
prepared you to be an effective school board member.

11. Describe any potential conflicts of interest that you may have that would limit *
your ability to function as an impartial board member or would be cause for recusal from voting.
12. (Optional) Link resume and up to two letters of reference. *
Affirmation and Signature
I swear (or affirm) that the information I have provided on this applicaiton is true and correct and that:
I am eligible to vote in Minnesota;
I do not currently occupy a public office that is incompatible with a seat on the
School Board;
I am not under contract to have an employment relationship with the School District that exceeds $8,000 in a fiscal year;
I am, or will be on assuming office by appointment, 21 years of age or more;
I will have maintained residence in this district for at least 30 days at the time of application for this appointment; and
I have not been convicted of an offense for which registration is required under
Minn. Stat. 243.166.

13. Please note: submitting this application with your name in the signature field *
will serve as your signature. Please "sign" and date below.
This content is neither created nor endorsed by Google.
Forms