September 4, 2024
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Robbinsdale Public School District, ISD #0281-01
4148 Winnetka Avenue N
New Hope, MN 55427-1288
Dear Dr. Staloch:
Minnesota Statutes, section 123B.71, requires a review and comment statement on the educational and economic advisability of your proposed school construction project. Information supplied by your school district and from Minnesota
Department of Education sources is the basis of this review and comment. With this positive review and comment, voter and school board approval is required for Robbinsdale Public School District, Independent School District #0281-01, to proceed with the proposed projects.
The district shall publish a summary of the review and comment statement (the final page) in the legal newspaper of the district at least 48 days, but not more than 60 days, prior to holding a referendum for bonds or soliciting any bids for the construction, expansion, or remodeling of an educational facility. The department may request a statement certifying the publication, and require the submission, review, and approval of preliminary and final construction plans.
Minnesota Statutes, section 123B.71, requires the commissioner to include comments from residents of the school district in the review and comment. As of the date of this letter, no public comments have been received. In addition, Minnesota
Statutes, section 123B.71, requires the school board hold a public meeting to discuss the review and comment prior to the date of the bond referendum election.
Minnesota Statutes, section 123B.71, requires that a school district, prior to occupying a new or renovated facility after
July 1, 2002, must submit a certification prepared by a system inspector to the commissioner and the building code official that will provide an occupancy permit. The certification must verify that the facility's installed or modified heating, ventilation, and air conditioning system operates according to design specifications and code, a system for monitoring outdoor airflow and total airflow of ventilation systems has been installed, and any installed or modified heating, ventilation, or air conditioning system provides an indoor air quality filtration system that meets ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers) Standard 52.1.
If you have any questions, please contact Chris Kubesh, Education Finance specialist, at 651-582-8319 or chris.kubesh@state.mn.us. Thank you for working with us to improve school facilities for Minnesota students.
Sincerely,
Willie L. Jett II
Commissioner cc: ReNae Bowman, School Board Chair
Enclosure
MINNESOTA DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
400 NE Stinson Blvd. ▪ Minneapolis, Minnesota 55413 ▪ 651-582-8200 ▪ mde.contactus@state.mn.us ▪ @MnDeptEd

The Commissioner of the Department of Education
Review and Comment on the School Construction
Proposal of Robbinsdale Public School District, ISD #0281-01
A review and comment must be provided on a school district construction project proposal before the district conducts a referendum, solicits bids, or issues bonds for the project. A project proposal has been submitted for review and comment according to requirements set forth in Minnesota Statutes, section 123B.71, subdivisions 9 and 10, and Minnesota Statutes, section 123B.72. The district provides the following information:
1. The geographic area and population to be served:
a. preschool through grade 12 student enrollment for the past five years, and b. student enrollment projections for the next five years.
2. A list of existing school facilities:
a. by year constructed, b. their uses, and c. an assessment of the extent to which alternate facilities are available within school district boundaries and in adjacent school districts.
3. A list of specific deficiencies of the facility:
a. demonstrating the need for a new or renovated facility to be provided, b. the process used to determine the deficiencies, c. a list of those deficiencies that will and will not be addressed by the proposed projects, d. a list of specific benefits that the new or renovated facility will provide to students, teachers, and community users served by the facility.
4. A description of the project, including:
a. specifications of site and outdoor space acreage, b. square footage allocations for classrooms, laboratories and support spaces, c. estimated expenditures for major portions of the project, d. estimated changes in facility operating costs, and e. dates the project will begin and be completed.
5. A specification of the source of project financing, including:
a. applicable statutory citations, b. the scheduled date for a bond issue or school board action, c. a schedule of payments, including debt service equalization aid, and d. the effect of a bond issue on local property taxes by property class and valuation.
6. Documentation obligating the school district and contractors to comply with the following items:
a. Minnesota Statutes, section 471.345 governing municipal contracts, b. sustainable design, c. school facility commissioning under Minnesota Statutes, section 123B.72, certifying the plans and designs for heating, ventilating, air conditioning and air filtration for an extensively renovated or new facility meet or exceed current code standards, including ASHRAE air filtration Standard 52.1, d. American National Standards Institute (ANSI) acoustical performance criteria, design requirements and guidelines for schools on maximum background noise levels and reverberation times, e. state fire code, f. chapter 326B governing building codes, and g. consultation with affected government units about the impact of the project on utilities, roads, sewers, sidewalks, retention ponds, school bus and automobile traffic, access to mass transit and safe access for pedestrians and cyclists.
MINNESOTA DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
400 NE Stinson Blvd. ▪ Minneapolis, Minnesota 55413 ▪ 651-582-8200 ▪ mde.contactus@state.mn.us ▪ @MnDeptEd

Description of Proposed School Construction Project
Robbinsdale Public School District, ISD #0281-01, is proposing a single-question referendum on November 5, 2024 that would reauthorize their existing capital projects levy which expires with the Payable 2024 levy. If approved by voters, the district would levy $6,995,704, beginning with the Payable 2025 levy for a ten year period. The annual levy amount in the nine subsequent years would be computed by multiplying 4.207% times the preceding year's Net Tax Capacity (NTC) and would be authorized for annual certification by the school board.
The estimated total cost of the projects to be funded over the ten year period is $69,950,740. Proposed projects include:
• student/staff computers
• software and software subscriptions
• technology upgrades (classrooms, infrastructure)
• security equipment
• building renovations and construction
• building entrance modifications
The school district is projecting a reduction in enrollment over the next several years. For the 2023-24 school year, K-12
enrollment was 10,321. Enrollment is expected to drop to 9,310 by the 2028-29 school year; a decline of roughly 10%.
The proposed expenditures appear to be in the long-term interest of the school district. In addition, the school board is aware that capital projects levy proceeds are only authorized to fund the capital projects proposed in this review and comment submission and eligible under Minnesota Statutes, section 126C.10, subdivision 14.
Review and Comment Statement
Based on the department's analysis of the school district's required documentation and other pertinent information from sources of the Minnesota Department of Education, the Commissioner of Education provides a positive review and comment.
Additional Information is Available
Persons desiring additional information regarding this proposal should contact the school district superintendent's office.
Willie L. Jett II
Commissioner
September 4, 2024
MINNESOTA DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
400 NE Stinson Blvd. ▪ Minneapolis, Minnesota 55413 ▪ 651-582-8200 ▪ mde.contactus@state.mn.us ▪ @MnDeptEd