1 MINNESOTA RULES 3512.0510
3512.0510 PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL ADMINISTRATIVE LICENSES.
Subpart 1. Core leadership competencies for Minnesota administrative licenses. A person who serves as a superintendent, principal, director of special education, or director of community education must demonstrate competence in the core areas under this subpart.
A. To demonstrate competence in leadership, a superintendent, principal, director of special education, or director of community education must:
(1) demonstrate leadership by collaboratively assessing and improving a professional culture of engagement, ethical and equitable practice, and systems perspective;
(2) demonstrate leadership by collaboratively developing a shared educational mission for the school or district, which provides purpose and direction for individuals and groups;
(3) demonstrate shared leadership and decision-making strategies and empower and entrust teachers and staff with collective responsibility for meeting the academic, social, behavioral, emotional, and physical needs of each student pursuant to the mission, vision, and core values of the school;
(4) understand how education is impacted by historical, local, state, national, and international events and issues;
(5) through a visioning process, formulate strategic plans and goals with staff and community to promote the academic success and well-being of each student;
(6) demonstrate setting priorities in the context of stakeholder needs;
(7) demonstrate an ability to serve as a spokesperson for the welfare of all learners to ensure high expectations; and
(8) understand the dynamics of change and demonstrate the ability to implement change and educational reform.
B. To demonstrate competence in organizational management, a superintendent, principal, director of special education, or director of community education must:
(1) demonstrate an understanding of organizational systems, including structural and cultural dynamics;
(2) define and use processes for gathering, analyzing, managing, and using data to plan and make decisions for program evaluation;
(3) plan and schedule personal and organizational work, establish procedures to regulate activities and projects, and delegate and empower others at appropriate levels;
(4) demonstrate the ability to analyze need and allocate personnel and material resources;
(5) develop and manage budgets and maintain accurate fiscal records;
Copyright © 2020 by the Revisor of Statutes, State of Minnesota. All Rights Reserved.

3512.0510 MINNESOTA RULES 2
(6) demonstrate an understanding of facilities development, planning, and management; and
(7) understand and use technology as a management tool.
C. To demonstrate competence in equity and culturally responsive leadership, a superintendent, principal, director of special education, or director of community education must demonstrate knowledge and skills to:
(1) ensure that each student is treated fairly, respectfully, and with an understanding of each student's culture and context;
(2) recognize, respect, and employ each student's strengths, diversity, and culture as assets for teaching and learning;
(3) ensure that each student has equitable access to effective teachers, learning opportunities, academic and social support, and other resources necessary for success;
(4) ensure policies and practices are in place that proactively encourage positive behavior and respond to student behavior needs in a positive, fair, and unbiased manner;
(5) recognize, identify, and address individual and institutional biases;
(6) promote the preparation of students to live productively in and contribute to a diverse and global society;
(7) address matters of equity and cultural responsiveness in all aspects of leadership; and
(8) ensure policies and practices are in place that address student and staff mental and physical health and trauma.
D. To demonstrate competence in policy and law, a superintendent, principal, director of special education, or director of community education must:
(1) understand and implement policy to meet local, state, and federal requirements and constitutional provisions, standards, and regulatory applications to promote student success;
(2) recognize and apply standards of care involving civil and criminal liability for negligence, harassment, and intentional torts; and
(3) demonstrate an understanding of state, federal, and case law, and rules and regulations governing general education, special education, and community education.
E. To demonstrate competence in political influence and governance, a superintendent, principal, director of special education, or director of community education must:
(1) exhibit an understanding of school districts as political systems, including governance models;
Copyright © 2020 by the Revisor of Statutes, State of Minnesota. All Rights Reserved.

3 MINNESOTA RULES 3512.0510
(2) demonstrate an understanding of involving stakeholders in the development of educational policy;
(3) understand the role and coordination of social agencies and human services to develop productive relationships and engage resources for the school community; and
(4) demonstrate an understanding of processes to align constituencies in support of school and district priorities.
F. To demonstrate competence in communication, a superintendent, principal, director of special education, or director of community education must:
(1) understand the need to develop shared understanding of and commitment to mission, vision, and core values within the school and the community;
(2) demonstrate individual and team facilitation skills;
(3) recognize and apply an understanding of individual and group behavior in all situations;
(4) demonstrate an understanding of conflict resolution and problem-solving strategies relative to communication;
(5) make presentations that are clear and easy to understand;
(6) respond to, review, and summarize information for groups;
(7) communicate appropriately, through speaking, listening, and writing, for different audiences, including students, teachers, parents, the community, and other stakeholders; and
(8) understand and utilize appropriate communication technology.
G. To demonstrate competence in community relations, a superintendent, principal, director of special education, or director of community education must:
(1) articulate organizational purpose and advocate publicly for the needs and priorities of students, families, and the community;
(2) demonstrate the ability to engage the extended community;
(3) effectively generate and respond to various forms of communication through media;
(4) promote a positive image of schools and the school district;
(5) monitor and address perceptions about school-community issues; and
(6) demonstrate a community-centric perspective and the ability to identify and articulate critical community issues that may impact local education.
H. To demonstrate competence in curriculum, instruction, and assessment for the success of all learners, a superintendent, principal, director of special education, or director of community education must:
Copyright © 2020 by the Revisor of Statutes, State of Minnesota. All Rights Reserved.

3512.0510 MINNESOTA RULES 4
(1) implement state academic standards and a coherent system of culturally responsive curriculum, instruction, and assessment that promotes the mission, vision, and core values of the district to embody high expectations for student learning;
(2) develop, assess, and support teachers' and staff members' professional knowledge, skills, and practice through differentiated opportunities and emerging trends for learning and growth, guided by understanding professional and adult learning and development;
(3) apply research and best practices on integrating curriculum, technology, and relevant resources to help all learners achieve at high levels;
(4) understand and assess the implementation of alternative instructional designs, curriculum, positive approaches to behavior management, and assessment accommodations and modifications as appropriate in all programs;
(5) demonstrate the ability to use data from valid assessments that are consistent with knowledge of child learning and development and technical standards of measurement to monitor student progress;
(6) lead, support with meaningful and effective feedback, and assess instructional practice that is consistent with knowledge of child learning and development, effective pedagogy, and the needs of each student; and
(7) promote and support instructional practice that is consistent with knowledge of child learning and development, is intellectually challenging, is authentic to student experiences, recognizes student strengths, and is differentiated and personalized.
I. To demonstrate competence in human resource management, a superintendent, principal, director of special education, or director of community education must:
(1) demonstrate knowledge of diversifying, effectively recruiting, selecting, and retaining personnel;
(2) demonstrate an understanding of staff development to improve the performance of all staff members;
(3) demonstrate the ability to select and apply appropriate models for supervision and evaluation;
(4) describe and demonstrate the ability to apply the legal requirements for personnel selection, development, retention, and dismissal;
(5) demonstrate an understanding of management responsibilities to act in accordance with federal and state constitutional provisions, statutory and case law, regulatory applications toward education, local rules, procedures, and directives governing human resource management;
(6) demonstrate an understanding of labor relations and collective bargaining; and
(7) demonstrate an understanding of the administration of employee contracts, benefits, and financial accounts.
Copyright © 2020 by the Revisor of Statutes, State of Minnesota. All Rights Reserved.

5 MINNESOTA RULES 3512.0510
J. To demonstrate competence in values and ethics of leadership, a superintendent, principal, director of special education, or director of community education must:
(1) demonstrate an understanding of the role of education in a democratic society;
(2) demonstrate an understanding of and model democratic value systems, ethics, and moral leadership;
(3) demonstrate the ability to balance complex community demands in the best interest of learners;
(4) help learners grow and develop as caring, informed citizens; and
(5) demonstrate an understanding and application of the code of ethics for school administrators under part 3512.5200.
K. To demonstrate competence in judgment and problem analysis, a superintendent, principal, director of special education, or director of community education must:
(1) identify the elements of a problem situation by analyzing relevant information, framing issues, identifying possible causes, and reframing possible solutions;
(2) demonstrate adaptability and conceptual flexibility;
(3) reach logical conclusions by making quality, timely decisions based on available information;
(4) identify and give priority to significant issues;
(5) demonstrate an understanding of, and utilize appropriate technology in, problem analysis; and
(6) demonstrate an understanding of different leadership and decision-making strategies, including but not limited to collaborative models and model appropriately their implementation.
L. To demonstrate competence in safety and security, a superintendent, principal, director of special education, or director of community education must:
(1) demonstrate the ability to develop and implement policies and procedures for safe and secure educational environments; and
(2) demonstrate the means to address emergency and crisis situations.
Subp. 2. Superintendent competencies. A person who serves as a superintendent must demonstrate all core competencies described in subpart 1 and competence in the specific areas under this subpart.
A. To demonstrate competence in policy and law, a superintendent must:
(1) demonstrate an understanding of the role policy plays in school district governance and administration;
Copyright © 2020 by the Revisor of Statutes, State of Minnesota. All Rights Reserved.

3512.0510 MINNESOTA RULES 6
(2) know and apply statutory regulations affecting school board meetings, communications, procedures, and practices; and
(3) demonstrate an understanding of the distinct roles and responsibilities of the school board and superintendent.
B. To demonstrate competence in political influence and governance, a superintendent must:
(1) demonstrate an understanding of the role the political process plays in public education and the connection between them;
(2) demonstrate an understanding of how to interact with local, state, and federal governments; and
(3) demonstrate an understanding of the roles played by other community leaders in the school district.
C. To demonstrate competence in communication, a superintendent must:
(1) demonstrate knowledge of cultivating positive relationships between and with school board members; and
(2) demonstrate effective skills in communication leadership between the school district and the community, including internal and external constituencies.
D. To demonstrate competence in fiscal management, a superintendent must demonstrate knowledge of factors that affect school finance, including sources of revenue; expenditure classifications; generally acceptable accounting principles; and local, state, and federal finance calculations.
E. To demonstrate competence in judgment and problem analysis, a superintendent must effectively balance varied and competing interests to ensure the mission and vision of the school district is carried forward.
Subp. 3. Principal competencies. A person who serves as a principal must demonstrate all core competencies described in subpart 1 and competence in the specific areas under this subpart.
A. To demonstrate competence in instructional leadership, a principal must:
(1) support teachers and staff in the implementation of state academic standards, coherent systems of culturally responsive curriculum, instruction, and assessment that promote the mission, vision, and core values of the school district to embody high expectations for student learning; and
(2) demonstrate the ability to understand and apply districtwide literacy and lead schoolwide literacy efforts in all content areas including numeracy.
B. To demonstrate competence in monitoring student learning, a principal must:
(1) demonstrate the ability to create a culture that fosters a community of learners;
Copyright © 2020 by the Revisor of Statutes, State of Minnesota. All Rights Reserved.

7 MINNESOTA RULES 3512.0510
(2) demonstrate an understanding of student support systems and services;
(3) demonstrate the ability to implement and monitor student management data systems;
(4) implement schoolwide policies and practices that encourage positive behavior, and respond to student misconduct in a positive, fair, and unbiased manner;
(5) demonstrate the ability to develop a master instructional schedule;
(6) demonstrate the ability to meet the diverse learning needs of all students; and
(7) demonstrate the ability to understand and support a comprehensive program of student activities.
C. To demonstrate competence in prekindergarten through grade 12 leadership, a principal must:
(1) demonstrate an understanding of the articulation and alignment of curriculum from prekindergarten through grade 12;
(2) demonstrate an understanding of different organizational systems and structures at prekindergarten, elementary, middle or junior high, and high school levels;
(3) demonstrate the ability to work with children of all ages;
(4) demonstrate the ability to work with parents, teachers, and other staff in all levels of schooling;
(5) demonstrate an understanding of the characteristics of effective transitions from one level of schooling to the next; and
(6) demonstrate an understanding of the developmental needs of children of all ages.
Subp. 4. Director of special education competencies. A person who serves as a director of special education must demonstrate the core competencies described in subpart 1 and competence in the specific areas under this subpart.
A. To demonstrate competence in policy and law, a director of special education must:
(1) demonstrate an understanding of state and federal laws, rules, and procedures governing special education finance, budgeting, and accounting; and
(2) demonstrate an understanding of state and federal regulations governing the monitoring of special education services.
B. To demonstrate competence in organizational management, a director of special education must:
(1) demonstrate knowledge of statutory regulations relative to school districts affecting board meetings, policies, communications, procedures, and practices that affect special education governance; and
Copyright © 2020 by the Revisor of Statutes, State of Minnesota. All Rights Reserved.

3512.0510 MINNESOTA RULES 8
(2) demonstrate an understanding of special education administrative models used in
Minnesota.
C. To demonstrate competence in resource and fiscal management, a director of special education must:
(1) demonstrate an ability to apply state and federal laws, rules, and procedures governing special education finance, budgeting, and accounting to school district funding structures;
(2) demonstrate an understanding of special education program development including needs assessment, design, implementation, and evaluation; and
(3) demonstrate an understanding of the resources available, along with the agencies and organizations that serve students with a disability and their families.
Subp. 5. Director of community education competencies. A person who serves as a director of community education must demonstrate the core competencies described in subpart 1 and competence in the specific areas under this subpart.
A. To demonstrate competence in community education concepts, a director of community education must:
(1) understand and describe the history and philosophy of community education;
(2) demonstrate a knowledge and application of the principles of community education;
(3) demonstrate a knowledge of the role of the local school district's administrative team;
(4) demonstrate, facilitate, and lead the integration of community education into the prekindergarten through grade 12 system;
(5) demonstrate the skills necessary to conduct community needs assessments as required by statute and district policy;
(6) demonstrate knowledge of the various assessment tools used to effectively evaluate community education programs and determine educational objectives and learning experiences; and
(7) demonstrate an understanding of the resources available to support learners of all abilities and ages.
B. To demonstrate competence in community capital, a director of community education must:
(1) demonstrate a knowledge of advisory councils, including their role, organization, functions, and development;
(2) demonstrate the ability to involve advisory councils in addressing community and school issues;
Copyright © 2020 by the Revisor of Statutes, State of Minnesota. All Rights Reserved.

9 MINNESOTA RULES 3512.0510
(3) demonstrate the ability to build collaborative partnerships in the community;
(4) demonstrate the ability to effectively identify formal and informal community political structures;
(5) demonstrate the ability to identify and effectively use local, civic, and business resources to enhance lifelong learning opportunities within the community;
(6) demonstrate knowledge of the techniques used for developing leadership among community members;
(7) demonstrate knowledge about sustaining community involvement in the community education process; and
(8) demonstrate knowledge of factors that affect school finance, including sources of revenue; expenditure classifications; generally acceptable accounting principles; and local, state, and federal finance calculations.
Statutory Authority: MS s 122A.14; L 2006 c 263 art 2 s 20
History: 33 SR 658; 44 SR 1385
Published Electronically: June 25, 2020
Copyright © 2020 by the Revisor of Statutes, State of Minnesota. All Rights Reserved.