Robbinsdale Area Schools
Independent School District 281
Original Adoption: November 11, 2014
Revised: December 4, 2020
Approved: February 8, 2021
Revised: August 7, 2023
Revised: July 18, 2022 October 2024
607.1 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE - ORGANIZATION OF GRADE LEVELS
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this procedure is to address the grade level organization of schools within the school district.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT
A. The policy of the school district is to address the groupings of grade levels as recognized in
Minnesota Statutes section 120A.05, as follows:
[NOTE: Each school district should identify within the groupings as defined in
Minnesota Statutes section 120A.05, how grade levels shall be organized within the school district from the options listed below:
Elementary: Grades pre kindergarten through 5th
Middle: Grades 6th-8th
Senior High: Grades 9th through 12th
B. The superintendent may seek school board approval to administer certain programs on a nongraded basis or a design different from that indicated. Program proposals that seek school board approval must meet all state requirements and reflect the rationale for the modification.
C. The school district may request documentation that verifies a student falls within the school's minimum and maximum age requirements for admission to publicly funded prekindergarten, preschool, kindergarten, or grades 1 through 12. Documentation may include a passport, a hospital birth record or physician's certificate, a baptismal or religious certificate, an adoption record, health records, immunization records, immigration records, previously verified school records, early childhood screening records, Minnesota Immunization Information Connection records, or an affidavit from a parent.
III. DEFINITIONS
A. "Kindergarten" means a program designed for students five years of age on September 1 of the calendar year in which the school year commences that prepares students to enter first grade the following school year.
B. "Prekindergarten" means a program designed for students younger than five years of age

on September 1 of the calendar year in which the school year commences that prepares students to enter kindergarten the following school year.
[NOTE: School districts with a voluntary prekindergarten program may choose to add a provision in line with Minnesota Statutes, section 124D.1, which was updated in 2024.
The statute states that a school district may establish a voluntary prekindergarten program for eligible four-year-old children (the italicized language is new.)]
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 120A.05, Subds. 9, 10a, 11, 13, 17 (Definitions)
Minn. Stat. § 120A.20, Subd. 4 (Admission to Public School)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.02, Subd. 2 (General Powers of Independent School Districts)
Cross References: None