To: School Board Directors
From: Michael Hart from PMA Securities, LLC
Re: Executive Summary - Operating Referendum Resolution and Capital
Projects Levy
Date: February 20, 2024
Background Information:
The District's general fund budget relies on two sources of funding originally authorized by voters.
The first is an operating referendum that generates $24.8 million of unrestricted revenue in the general fund for FY 2025. The second source of funding is a capital projects levy that currently funds the District's technology budget, and generates about $6.64 million for FY 2025.
Each referendum authority is limited to 10 years by state statute, and the current referendum authority dates back to an election held in 2014. The school board must take action this year to maintain these funding sources.
Where we were:
Robbinsdale area schools passed the following Operating Referendum Authorities:
● 2014 Election Renewal
● 2018 Election Increase
Robbinsdale area schools passed a Capital Projects Levy Authority:
● Authorized in 2014
Where we are:
2014 Operating Referendum authority expires after taxes payable in 2025. Our options are:
● Board renewal of 2014 referendum authority (Resolution by the Board)
○ Can be done between 7/1/2023 and 6/15/2025
● Voter approved renewal of the 2014 referendum authority
○ Hold election in 2024 or 2025 to renew (an election in 2025 would incur the most cost to the district)
● Increase limited by state cap
○ Limited to $54.00 per pupil or approximately $600,000
● Let the referendum expire
Capital Levy expires after taxes payable in 2024. Our options are:
● Continue funding only Technology (hardware and software)
● Expand the funding to support technology(hardware and software), cybersecurity, cameras, secure entrances, and card readers.
● Ask the taxpayers for an increase
● Ask the taxpayers for a renewal

Where are we going: District Recommendation
Operating Referendum
District administration recommends that the school board renew the current referendum authority originally authorized in 2014 for an additional 10 years, by a resolution of the school board. Prior to acting on a resolution, the school board will be required by state statute to allow for public testimony on this topic. Under current statute, the board can only elect to extend this authority one time for the same 10 year time period. This process will maintain this critical funding source at its current level.
Capital Project Levy
District administration recommends that the board renew the current capital project levy at the same tax rate (4.207%) for 10 years, at an election held in November 2024. The administration also recommends expanding the eligible use of the funds as described in a ballot question to include the following:
● Funds to increase technology access for students and staff (current purpose)
● Secure building entrances
● Building technology and security infrastructure including cameras, key cards, network improvements and cybersecurity upgrades
Administration believes the current tax rate can provide for the added scope. For FY 2026, the capital projects levy is expected to generate approximately $7 million in revenue. The technology staff needs approximately $5 annually to maintain the current technology renewal cycle.
This leaves $2 million annually to address the added scope.
Due to the proposed change in project scope, the District would need to submit materials to MDE
in compliance with the review and comment statute. The approval of this submittal will come before the board.
Because we are proposing to maintain the current tax rate, state statute dictates that the ballot language will be able to include the following language:
By voting "YES" on this ballot question, you are voting to renew an existing capital project referendum that is scheduled to expire.