Community Engagement
& Referendum Communications
Robbinsdale Area Schools
February 20, 2024
Educate. Communicate. Motivate.

About DehlerPR
We improve communities through
CORE
exceptional public relations,
FOCUS
marketing, and strategic counsel.
Public sector; schools
OUR NICHE

About DehlerPR
● Strategic counsel
● Communications planning
● Branding/Messaging
SERVICES
● Marketing (including referendum)
● Crisis communications
● Traditional and social media relations

About DehlerPR
● 13 years
● 88 customers
DETAILS
● Schools, cities, counties, state agencies
● 45 Referendum Campaigns
● 33 Wins
REFERENDUMS
● 12 Losses
● 5 Wins/Losses

Our Approach | RPIE
DehlerPR adheres to the world-wide, industry-standard, four-step communications process of Research, Planning, Implementation and
Evaluation, a process championed by the Public Relations Society of
America and the National School Public Relations Association.
We overlay this process with our corporate values: We listen intently to client needs, dig deep to understand the situation, and work closely with clients to address their unique needs, and the unique needs of client stakeholders. Always unique; never a cookie-cutter approach.

Meet Our Team
Jayne Helgevold - Project
Jeff Dehler, APR - President
Manager. Two decades in and founder. More than marketing and community two decades in PR.
engagement. Macon, GA
Louisville, KY
Krisanthy Sikkila - Account
Ron Wilke - Senior
Manager. Experienced in
Strategic Counselor.
school PR and media
40-year veteran of public relations. New Hope, MN
schools. La Crescent, MN

SITUATION
ANALYSIS

What is the situation?
● Nearly 11,000 students in 11 elementary schools, four middle schools, two high schools, two alternative high school programs, and an online school for grades 4-12.
● Serves all or parts of seven communities in the northwest suburbs of Minneapolis.
● Racially, ethnically and economically diverse, with more than
60% of students eligible for free or reduced price lunch.

What is the situation?
● Voters approved a $3.5 million capital projects levy in 2014 that includes an inflation factor.
● Last year, the district collected $5.9 million on that levy that has been used for technology.
● The district is considering asking voters to renew the levy in a
November 2024 referendum.
● Voters have typically supported Robbinsdale school referendums.
● A general election can be a challenging time for school messages to be heard.

REFERENDUM
COMMUNICATION

4 Steps to Referendum Success
1. Community Engagement
2. Good Project
3. Good District Story
4. Committed Advocates

1. Community Engagement
Purpose
● Educate stakeholders on the current situation
● Seek feedback on the situation, and on the proposed solution(s)
● Utilize feedback to adopt ballot language

1. Community Engagement
Audiences and Tactics
Staff
● Meetings, email, website, principal updates
Families, Community members
● Opinion survey, meetings, task force, direct mail, email, website, traditional and social media
Opinion leaders
● Road show, meetings + tactics above

2. Good Project
● Clearly defined problem
● Reasonable solution
● Affordable solution
= $128 / year*
*Inver Grove Heights, 2018

3. Good District Story
Strategy and Tactics
● Research
● Strategic communications plan
● Strong theme and messaging
● Tactics:
○ Direct mail
○ Website
○ Video
○ Presentations
○ Emails
○ Social media
*Inver Grove Heights, 2018
"Go where the people are!"

3. Good District Story
Use of Data
*Inver Grove Heights, 2018

District
Informational
Campaign
● The goal is an informed citizenry.
● The district must provide information about the campaign in a neutral manner.
● District funds must not be used to promote the election's outcome.
● Districts may use funds for a neutral informational campaign.

4. Committed Advocates
Citizens' or Vote Yes Committee
● Gotta have them!
● They can say "Vote Yes"
(Power of suggestion, bandwagon)
● They have the pulse of community
● They are a third party endorsement
● Different, powerful voice than the district itself
● Some community members would rather listen to other community members - community translator
*Inver Grove Heights, 2018

The "Vote Yes"
Group
● The goal is to pass the referendum.
● The YES Committee operates independently of the district.
● The individuals who work on the promotional campaign have a great deal of latitude in their promotional work.
● The promotional campaign raises and spends private funds.

TIMELINE
ROLES

Community Engagement Timeline
March: Community Survey, Staff Meetings, Opinion leader meeting
March - April: Community based committee or task force meetings
April - May: Community meetings, online and in-person, road show
May - July: School board decision on referendum
January - June: Internal and public facing communication

Referendum Marketing Timeline
April: Kick-off meetings, existing research review and inventories, draft communications plan and timeline
May: Community engagement, recruit volunteers
July: Campaign rollout: Key messages, brand, eNewsletter, website, fact sheet mailing
September: Yes voter identification, Get out the early vote activities, meetings with parents and community groups
October: Meetings with parents and community groups, Yes voter identification, Get out the vote activities, district brochure mailing
November: Election

Admin Team Roles
STAFF
• Educate, answer questions
• Recruit staff for committee
PARENTS
• Answer questions
• Info displays in parent trafficked spaces
• Committee tables at events
• Site teams systematic parent engagement

School Board Member Roles
● Be visible in your support
● Serve as community "eyes and ears"
● Share district informational messages - concise and consistent
● Can take any role on citizen's committee
● Lead by example
● Keep superintendent informed
● Attend open houses, presentations
● Network

It's about...

SITUATION
ANALYSIS

REFERENDUM
COMMUNICATION

TIMELINE
ROLES