Summary Minutes of Study Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed: March 2, 2026

A Study Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, February 17, 2026 at

7:26 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas,

reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
/wwwr rg/discover, - under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session

summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Welcome and Introductions

Purpose and Agenda
Review of the Board of Education 2025-26 Agenda and Working Document, highlighting the sections to be covered this

evening.
District Governance and Policy (None for this evening.)

Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction

A. Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 Phase I/II Update - Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent and Dr. Bob McDowell, Assistant
Superintendent
Dr. Staloch and Dr. McDowell provided a presentation reviewing Feb. 2025 demographic/enrollment data from Hazel
Reinhardt, June 2025 facilities condition assessment from Nexus, the September 2025 Vision 2030 recommendations from the Reimagine Rdale Vision 2030 Team, the November 2025 residential survey by Morris Leatherman, and the recent SOD approval and 2026 reductions. They also reviewed three options outlining proposed future footprints for the district, including estimated LTFM and bond numbers for each. Additional information was requested by the Board for the follow up discussion at the March 2, 2026 Business Meeting.

B. Nexus Solutions, LLC Partnership Development Agreement - Dr. Bob McDowell, Assistant Superintendent and Kristen
Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer - with representatives from Nexus
Partnership Development Agreement with Nexus for the Vision 2030 process of developing actionable building consolidation, reconfiguration, and construction options.
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval and waived reading of the agreement, Wutoh seconded.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

Board Governance

A. School Board Self-Evaluation
Chair Evans-Becker provided information to the Board from Gail Gilman of the MN School Boards Assn. regarding their self-evaluation process. The Board agreed to do the self-evaluation by Feb. 22, and requested the cost pertaining to Ms. Gilman facilitating a review of the results afterwards virtually vs. in person.

B. Caregiver and Staff Survey: School Board Question
Chair Evans-Becker reviewed a question to be included in a survey to be sent to staff and caregivers soon.

C. 2026-27 School Board Meeting Schedule
Chair Evans-Becker reviewed the first draft of the 2026-27 schedule for meetings, requesting proposed dates for a
Canvassing the Election meeting in November. They will determine that date at the March 2, 2026 Business Meeting and put the schedule up for vote.

Superintendent Relations (None for this evening.)
Community Engagement (None for this evening.)

Information Items (None for this evening.)

Study Session concluded at 9:56 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board