Adopted: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 507.5
Orig. 2024
Revised:
507.5 SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICERS
[Note: The provisions of this policy substantially reflect statutory requirements.
School districts utilizing school resource officers may choose to adopt this policy.]
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to establish the contractual duties and training requirements of a school resource officer.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
The school district, upon securing the services of one or more school resource officers, is committed to establishing the qualifications and duties required of these officers. Any contract for the services of a school resources officer with the school district must meet the requirements of this policy.
III. DEFINITIONS
A. "School" means an elementary school, middle school or secondary school, as defined in
Minnesota Statutes, section 120A.05, subdivisions 9, 11, and 13.
B. "School Resource Officer" means a peace officer who is assigned to work in an elementary school, middle school, or secondary school during the regular instructional school day as one of the officer's regular responsibilities through the terms of a contract entered between the peace officer's employer and the designated school district or charter school.
IV. CONTRACTUAL DUTIES
A. A school resource officer's contractual duties with the school district shall include:
1. fostering a positive school climate through relationship building and open communication;
2. protecting students, staff, and visitors to the school grounds from criminal activity;
3. serving as a liaison from law enforcement to school officials;
4. providing advice on safety drills;
5. identifying vulnerabilities in school facilities and safety protocols;
6. educating and advising students and staff on law enforcement topics; and,
7. enforcement of criminal laws.
B. The school district may contract with a school resource officer's employer for the officer to perform additional duties to those described in paragraph
507.5-1

IV.A.
C. A school resource officer must not use force or the authority of their office solely to enforce school rules or policies or participate in the enforcement of discipline for violations of school rules.
D. Nothing in this Article limits any other duty or responsibility imposed on peace officers; limits the expectation that peace officers will exercise professional judgment and discretion to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the public when carrying out their duties; or creates a duty for school resource officers to protect students, staff, or others on school grounds that is different from the duty to protect the public as a whole.
V. TRAINING
A. Except as provided for in paragraphs V.B., V.C., and V.D. below, beginning September
1, 2025, a peace officer assigned to serve as a school resource officer must complete a training course that provides instruction on the learning objectives identified in
Minnesota Statutes, section 626.8482, subdivision 4 prior to assuming the duties of a school resource officer.
B. A peace officer who has completed either the School Safety Center standardized
Basic School Resource Officer Training or the National School Resource Officer Basic
School Resource Officer course prior to September 1, 2025, must complete the training mandated under paragraph V.A. above before June 1, 2027. A peace officer covered under this paragraph may complete a supplemental training course approved by the board pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 626.8482, subdivision 4, paragraph (b), to satisfy the training requirement.
C. If an officer's employer is unable to provide the required training course to the officer prior to the officer assuming the duties of a school resource officer, the officer must complete the required training within six months of assuming the duties of a school resource officer. The officer is not required to perform the duties described in Minnesota
Statutes, section 626.8482, subdivision 2, paragraph (a), clause (4) or (5), until the officer has completed the required training course. The officer must review any policy adopted by the officer's employer pursuant to section 626.8482, subdivision 6 before assuming the other duties of a school resource officer and must comply with that policy.
D. An officer who is serving as a substitute school resource officer for fewer than 60
student contact days within a school year is not obligated to complete the required training or perform the duties described in Minnesota Statutes, section 626.8482
subdivision 2, paragraph (a), clause (4) or (5), but must review and comply with any policy adopted pursuant to subdivision 6 by the law enforcement agency that employs the substitute school resource officer.
E. For each school resource officer employed by an agency, the chief law enforcement officer must maintain a copy of the most recent training certificate issued to the officer for completion of the training mandated under this section.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 120A.05, subds. 9, 11, and 13 (Definitions)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.02, subd. 25 (General Powers of Independent School
Districts - School Resource Officers)
Minn. Stat. § 626.8482 (School Resource Officers; Duties; Training; Model
Policy)
507.5-2

Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 403 (Discipline, Suspension, and Dismissal of School
District Employees)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 414 (Mandated Reporting of Child Neglect or Physical or Sexual Abuse)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 415 (Mandated Reporting of Maltreatment of
Vulnerable Adults)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 506 (Student Discipline)
507.5-3