SEA
Pumpkin Drop
2024-25
Presented by: Principal Hanson, SEA students & staff
Date: 11/18/24

SEA Mission Statement
To provide a Stimulating and
Engaging Atmosphere that fosters all students' innate curiosity and joy of discovery to achieve high levels of success.
Students will positively contribute as members of a diverse and global community.

What SEA's Annual Pumpkin Drop?
The pumpkin drop is a community event that brings together creativity, engineering, and a lot of excitement!
It's a hands on way for students to apply scientific principles, develop collaboration skills and feel connected to their community.

Strategic Plan Alignment
Academic Achievement: Application of scientific and engineering concepts, critical thinking, and problem solving skills
Student Engagement: Fosters creativity and curiosity, experimental, hands-on & inquiry-based learning
Collaboration & Partnership: Student collaboration, parent volunteers, district staff and department involvement & community event

Pumpkin Drop Challenge
Criteria & Constraints
● Protect pumpkin
● Safety
● Design inside of box only
Materials
● Changes every year
● Wheel of Wow this year
Engineering Design Process
● Science and Engineering Practices

Wheel of Wow - Mystery Material

Pumpkin Drop Materials

Pumpkin Drop Prep

Pumpkin Drop Final Test

Collaboration & Partnership

Grade 1 Student Speakers: Kal & Sephie

Grade 3 Student Speakers: Krish & Rayna

Grade 5 Student Speakers: Aleena & Eli

Community Feedback
"Thanks for inviting me. It was a blast!"
- Justin Fagre, Health & Safety
"It has definitely evolved since Kindergarten, as students have shown remarkable adaptability and growth, both in their ability to pivot and in advancing their engineering thinking and skills."
- Willette Whitted, SEA Grade 5 parent

Community Feedback
"I'm always impressed with the critical thinking from all of our students and the engagement of our families."
-Assistant Superintendent Marti Voight
"We used to come to the pumpkin drop before our kids went to school here. It's a fun neighborhood event. We love it. That's what made us want to come to this school."
- Katie Cervenka, SEA parent

Alumni Highlight

Carol Callen, 1st grade at SEA
● 38 years of teaching, 28 in
Robbinsdale (K-3)
● My proud path: Pilgrim Lane,
Plymouth, Armstrong (83)

Nicole Ewert, Assistant Site
Supervisor at SEA Adventure Club
● Robbinsdale Area Schools Path:
Noble (2001), Sandburg (2004),
Armstrong (2008)
● RAS/Adventure Club:
Meadow Lake (summer, 2011),
Zachary Lane, (summer, 2012),
SEA (2012-present)

uz

"eee Wheel of Wow - Mystery Material

uz

==" Pumpkin Drop Materials

uz

ROBBINSDALE

uz

"Pumpkin Drop Final Test

=" Collaboration & Partnership

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

> \

enone Grade 1 Student Speakers: Kal & Sephie

uz

mascns Grade 3 Student Speakers: Krish & Rayna

'Area Schools

vase Grade 5 Student Speakers: Aleena & Eli

Area Schools

uz

rOgansbate Alumni Highlig ht