DocuSign Envelope ID: 77C5C6E7-F672-44CF-8E39-5314EDFB61CF
SUPERINTENDENT'S CONTRACT
Robbinsdale Area School District
July 1, 2021 to June 30, 2024
The School Board of Independent School District No. 281, Robbinsdale Area School District, New Hope,
Minnesota (District) enters into this contract (Contract) with David Engstrom (Superintendent), a legally qualified and licensed superintendent, who agrees to perform the duties of superintendent of schools of the District.
The District and the Superintendent agree as follows:
Article I
Applicable Statute
This agreement is entered into between the District and the Superintendent pursuant to Minn. Stat.
§123B.143, Subd.1.
Article II
Licensure
The Superintendent shall provide throughout the life of this contract a valid and appropriate license to act as Superintendent in the State of Minnesota as required by applicable state laws, rules and regulations and maintain his appropriate license throughout the term of this Contract.
Article III
Duration, Expiration, Termination and Mutual Consent
1. Duration. This Contract is for a term of three (3) years commencing July 1, 2021 (Effective Date) and expiring June 30, 2024. It shall remain in full force and effect unless modified by mutual consent of the
School Board and the Superintendent, or unless terminated as provided herein. The Superintendent will notify the School Board in writing of his intent to not renew by February 15, 2024. The School Board will give notice six (6) months prior to contract expiration of intent not to extend another contract.
2. Expiration. This Contract shall expire on June 30, 2024. Upon the expiration of the term, neither party shall have any further claim against the other, and the District's employment of the Superintendent shall cease, unless a subsequent Contract is entered into in accordance with M.S. §123B.143, Subd. 1.
3. Termination during the Term. The Superintendent's employment may be terminated during the term of this Contract only for cause as defined in M.S. §122A.40, Subds. 9 or 13. Except for purposes of describing grounds for discharge, the provisions of M.S. §122A.40 shall not otherwise be applicable. If the School Board proposes to terminate the Superintendent during the Contract term for cause as described in M.S. §122A.40, Subds. 9 or 13, it shall notify the Superintendent in writing of the proposed grounds for termination. The Superintendent shall be entitled to a hearing before an arbitrator provided the
Superintendent makes such a request in writing within fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt of the written notice of the proposed termination. In such event, the parties shall jointly petition the Bureau of
Mediation Services (BMS) for a list of five (5) arbitrators. The arbitrator shall be selected by the parties through the normal striking process as provided by BMS rules. The arbitrator shall conduct a hearing under normal arbitration procedure rules and issue a written decision. The decision of the arbitrator shall

DocuSign Envelope ID: 77C5C6E7-F672-44CF-8E39-5314EDFB61CF
be final and binding upon the parties, subject to normal judicial review of arbitration decisions as provided by law. The Superintendent may be suspended with pay pending final determination by the arbitrator. If the Superintendent fails to request a hearing as provided herein within the fifteen (15)
calendar day period, it shall be deemed acquiescence by the Superintendent to the School Board's proposed action and the proposed action shall become final on such date as determined by the School
Board, and the Superintendent shall have no further claim or recourse.
4. Mutual Consent. This Contract may be terminated at any time by the parties by written mutual consent.
If the Superintendent requests termination of this Contract pursuant to this paragraph, the consent of the
School Board shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Article IV
Duties, Board/Superintendent Relationships and Evaluation
1. Duties. The Superintendent shall have responsibility for the administration of the District under the direction of the School Board. The Superintendent is the chief executive officer of the District. He shall direct and assign teachers and other employees of the District under the Superintendent's supervision; shall organize, reorganize and arrange the administrative and supervisory staff, including instruction and business affairs, as best serves the District subject to the approval of the School Board; shall select all personnel subject to the approval of the School Board; shall from time to time suggest policies, regulations, rules and procedures deemed necessary for the District, and in general perform all duties incident to the office of the Superintendent and such other duties as may be prescribed by the School Board from time to time. The Superintendent shall abide by the policies, regulations, rules and procedures established by the School Board and the State of Minnesota. The Superintendent shall have the right to attend all School Board meetings and all School Board and citizen committee meetings, serve as an ex officio member of the School Board and all School Board committees and provide administrative recommendations on each item of business considered by each of these groups.
2. Board/Superintendent Relationships. No later than August 1, 2021 and at least annually thereafter, the School
Board and Superintendent shall meet to discuss the process and procedures for how the School Board and
Superintendent will communicate and work together. In addition, the School Board, individually and collectively, shall bring to the Superintendent's attention significant criticisms and suggestions regarding the operation of the
District and the Superintendent's performance for his study, review, and if necessary, recommendations and resolution.
3. Superintendent's Evaluation. No later than August 1, 2022 and no later than August 1 of each subsequent year of the Contract, the School Board will review the Superintendent's performance in a closed session pursuant to the Minnesota Open Meeting Law, Minn. Stat. 13D.05. No later than September
1 of each year of this Contract, the Superintendent and the School Board shall meet to discuss and agree on annual goals and on an evaluation instrument to be used for the Superintendent's annual evaluation.
No later than July 1, 2022 and no later than July 1 of each year of this Contract, the Superintendent shall provide the School Board a self-appraisal using the agreed-upon evaluation instrument and the School
Board shall take the Superintendent's self-appraisal into consideration in conducting the Superintendent's annual evaluation. Using the agreed-upon evaluation instrument, the School Board will provide a written summary to the Superintendent. The evaluation will include commendations, suggestions for improvement and/or recommendations. The School Board and Superintendent shall meet in closed session pursuant to the Minnesota Open Meeting Law to discuss the School Board's evaluation and possible extension of this Contract and other modifications to this Contract. The Superintendent shall have the

DocuSign Envelope ID: 77C5C6E7-F672-44CF-8E39-5314EDFB61CF
opportunity to respond to the School Board's evaluation. The Superintendent's evaluation shall be notpublic.
Article V
Duty Year and Leaves
1. Basic Work Year. The Superintendent's duty year shall be for the entire twelve (12) month Contract year as provided herein and the Superintendent shall perform services on those legal holidays on which the District is authorized to conduct school if the School Board Chair so determines. The Superintendent shall be on duty during any emergency, natural or unnatural, unless otherwise excused in accordance with
School Board administrative policy.
2. Personal Time Off. The Superintendent shall earn fifty (50) days of annual paid personal time off (PTO)
for Contract years 2021-2024. Unused PTO days may be carried over from one year to the next and accumulate without limit.
a. At the discretion of the Superintendent, the District shall direct the cash equivalent of up to twenty (20) unused PTO days on June 30 of each year of the term of the Contract to one of the
School District's designated retirement plans as selected by the Superintendent and provided the
Superintendent's contribution does not exceed any statutory annual limits on contributions. The value of the converted days shall be determined in accordance with Article IX, Section 7 of this
Contract, based upon the Superintendent's salary at the time of conversion.
b. Upon termination of employment, ten (10) days of accumulated unused PTO days for each year of service up to a maximum of one hundred thirty (130) days shall be converted to a cash equivalent and contributed according to the table below. Contributions to the plans identified below shall be made only to the extent permitted by applicable law. Such plans shall be separate from and in addition to any other plans of the same type maintained by the District not wholly and solely funded with converted paid leave. The value of the converted days shall be determined in accordance with Article IX, Section 7 of this Contract, based upon the Superintendent's salary at the time of termination of employment.
Payment Date 403(b) plan 457 plan Cash
Last date of The maximum The maximum allowed N/A
employment allowed by law as by law as calculated calculated by the by the 457
403(b) representative.
representative.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 77C5C6E7-F672-44CF-8E39-5314EDFB61CF
th
January 15 of each The maximum The maximum allowed Any Remaining year immediately allowed by law as by law as calculated balance.
following the year calculated by the by the 457
including last date 403(b) representative.
of employment representative.
until all funds are paid
3. Holidays. In addition to the PTO days, the Superintendent shall be entitled to twelve (12) paid holidays as observed each Contract year as listed below:
• New Year's Day
• Martin Luther King Day
• President's Day
• Memorial Day
• Independence Day
• Labor Day
• Thanksgiving Day
• Friday after Thanksgiving th
• December 24
th
• December 25
• Plus two (2) floating holidays to be observed when school is not in session
4. Emergency Leave. The Superintendent may be granted paid emergency leave during each year of the
Contract at the discretion of the School Board.
5. Bereavement Leave. The Superintendent shall be granted bereavement leave of up to five (5) days for a death within the Superintendent's immediate or close family. The time shall be utilized in a reasonable amount and shall be determined after conferring with the School Board Chair. More time may be granted if agreed to by the School Board Chair. For the purpose of this Contract, immediate or close family is defined as a spouse, child (including step-children), parent, grandparent, or any person residing in the
Superintendent's home at the time of death.
6. Disability. If the Superintendent is unable to perform regular duties because of personal illness or disability and has exhausted all accumulated paid personal time off, the District shall provide additional paid personal time off at a salary equal to seventy percent (70%) of the Superintendent's regular salary until the elimination period for long term disability insurance expires.
7. Medical Leave.
a. The Superintendent and District agree to incorporate by reference and be bound by the provisions of M.S. §122A.40, Subd. 12 relating to suspension and leave of absence for health reasons.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 77C5C6E7-F672-44CF-8E39-5314EDFB61CF
b. If the Superintendent is unable to perform regular duties because of personal illness or disability and has exhausted all paid personal time off credit available or has become eligible for long term disability insurance and has not been suspended or placed on leave of absence pursuant to M.S.
§122A.40, Subd. 12, the Superintendent shall, upon request, be granted an unpaid medical leave of absence up to one (1) calendar year in duration. The School Board may, in its discretion, extend such a leave upon written request. A request for medical leave of absence or extension thereof pursuant to this section of the Contract shall be accompanied by a written statement from a physician outlining the condition of health and estimated time in which the Superintendent is expected to be able to resume job duties. The Superintendent while on medical leave of absence is eligible to continue to participate in group insurance programs as permitted under the insurance policy provisions, but the Superintendent shall pay the entire premium for those insurance programs for which the Superintendent wishes to remain covered commencing with the beginning of the medical leave. If medical leave of at least one (1) full year is granted pursuant to this section, the Superintendent voluntarily waives any right to a leave of absence to which the
Superintendent might otherwise be entitled pursuant to M.S. §122A.40, Subd. 12.
8. Worker's Compensation. Pursuant to Minnesota Statute Chapter 176, in the event the Superintendent is injured on the job in the service of the District, the Superintendent will be eligible to receive worker's compensation benefits. The District will continue to provide insurance and other benefits, as listed in
Articles VI and VII of this Contract in accordance with the law.
9. Jury Service. In the event the Superintendent is required to serve on jury duty, the Superintendent shall be granted the day or days necessary as required by the court in order to discharge the jury duty responsibility without any salary deduction or loss of basic leave allowance. The compensation the
Superintendent receives for performing jury duty service shall be remitted to the District.
10. Military Leave. Military leave shall be granted pursuant to applicable law.
Article VI
Insurance
1. Health and Hospitalization. The District shall provide the Copay Health Insurance plan for the
Superintendent and Superintendent's dependents at the expense of the District.
In the event this Contract will cause or does cause penalties, fees or fines to be assessed against the District due to providing health insurance pursuant to this section the parties agree to negotiate a revision to the
Contract that eliminates or reduces penalties, fees, or fines to be assessed against the District. The amount of any reduction in the District's contribution toward the Superintendent's healthcare benefits pursuant to this section as a result of addressing the "highly compensated employee" component of the Affordable
Care Act (ACA) will be placed into another District provided benefit(s) such as a retirement HRA, salary, or other District provided benefit as agreed to by the parties.
2. Dental Insurance. The District shall provide dental insurance coverage for the Superintendent and the
Superintendent's dependents at the expense of the District.
3. Life Insurance. The District shall provide to the Superintendent a group term life insurance plan providing coverage equal to three (3) times the Superintendent's annual salary, as stated in Article VIII,

DocuSign Envelope ID: 77C5C6E7-F672-44CF-8E39-5314EDFB61CF
at the expense of the District. The death benefit of the group term life insurance plan will be payable to the Superintendent's named beneficiary.
4. Long Term Disability Insurance. The District shall provide, at District expense, long term disability coverage for the Superintendent in the District's group plan.
5. Liability Insurance. The District shall provide to the Superintendent, at District expense, liability insurance naming the Superintendent as an insured, along with the District, in an amount not less than that which is required by law for the District.
6. Claims Against the District. The eligibility of the Superintendent, or the Superintendent's beneficiary, for life insurance benefits shall be governed by the terms of the insurance policies purchased by the District pursuant to this Article VI. It is understood that the District's only obligation is to purchase the insurance policies described herein, and no claim shall be made against the District as a result of denial by an insurer of insurance benefits if the District has purchased the policies and paid the premiums described herein.
7. Continuation of Insurance Coverage. If the Superintendent retires, after ten (10) or more years of service, Superintendent shall continue to receive the District contribution for and coverage under the
District's group health, dental and life insurance, at the actual dollar amount of whatever contribution was in effect at the time of retirement, until the end of the month in which the Superintendent becomes eligible for Medicare/Medicaid benefits or until the date the Superintendent and Superintendent's dependents become eligible for health and hospitalization coverage from another source, whichever is earlier.
Article VII
Other Benefits and Professional Conferences and Meetings
1. Tax Sheltered Annuities. The Superintendent will be eligible to participate in a tax-sheltered annuity plan through payroll deduction established pursuant to Section 403 (b) and Section 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, Minnesota Statutes, Section 123B.02, Subd. 15, and District policy, and as otherwise provided by law. To the extent the Superintendent participates in the plan, the District will match the Superintendent's contribution in the plan up to a maximum of three percent (3%) of current annual salary.
2. Automobile. The District shall provide the Superintendent with a monthly allowance of six hundred and no/100 dollars ($600.00) for business use of his private vehicle pursuant to M.S. §471.665, Subd.3.
3. Smartphone and Other Technology. The District shall provide the Superintendent the monthly stipend of one hundred and no/100 dollars ($100.00) for his personal smartphone and data plan. The smartphone allowance provided to Superintendent will be characterized for tax purposes as ordinary income. In addition, the District shall provide the Superintendent the technology necessary to carry out the duties of the Superintendent, which may include a tablet and laptop.
4. Professional Conferences and Meetings. The District expects the Superintendent to continue his professional growth. As a result, the District shall pay all legally valid expenses and fees for the
Superintendent's attendance at professional conferences and meetings, including the American
Association of School Administrators and Minnesota Association of School Administrators, and other professional education associations and agencies approved by the Board Chair and such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Superintendent shall periodically report to the School Board relative

DocuSign Envelope ID: 77C5C6E7-F672-44CF-8E39-5314EDFB61CF
to all meetings and conferences attended. The Superintendent shall file itemized expense statements to be processed and approved as provided by law.
5. In addition to the benefits provided in this Contract, the District will provide the Superintendent with other benefits provided to District-level administrators.
Article VIII
Salary
The Superintendent shall be paid an annual salary of two hundred twenty-three thousand dollars
($223,000.00) for the period from July 1, 2021 until June 30, 2022; two hundred twenty-seven thousand four hundred sixty dollars ($227,460.00) for the period from July 1, 2022 until June 30, 2023, and two hundred thirty-two thousand nine dollars ($232,009.00) for the period July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024.
The annual salary may be increased, but shall not be reduced, during the term of this Contract. The annual salary shall be paid each year of the term in 26 equal installments subject to required withholding and deductions.
Article IX
Miscellaneous Provisions
1. Outside Professional Activities. While the Superintendent must devote full time and due diligence to the affairs and the activities of the District, the Superintendent, with or without honorarium, may serve as a consultant to other school districts or educational agencies, lecture, engage in writing and speaking activities, and engage in other activities if such activities do not impede the Superintendent's ability to perform the Superintendent's job duties. The Superintendent shall not engage in other employment, consultant service or other activity for which a salary, fee, or honorarium is paid without the prior approval of the School Board Chair and such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
2. Indemnification and Provision of Counsel. In the event that an action is brought or a claim is made against the Superintendent arising out of or in connection with the Superintendent's employment, and the
Superintendent is acting within the scope of employment or official duties, the District shall defend and indemnify the Superintendent to the extent permitted by law. Indemnification, as provided in this section, shall not apply in the case of malfeasance in office or willful or wanton neglect of duty, and the obligation of the District herein shall be subject to the limitations as provided in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 466.
3. Dues for Professional and Civic Organizations. The Superintendent is encouraged to belong to applicable professional educational and civic organizations where such membership will serve the best interests of the District. Accordingly, the District will pay such membership dues for organizations as
School Board Chair and such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Superintendent shall present appropriate statements for approval as provided by law.
4. Professional Development, Continuing Education and Technology Investment. The Superintendent will be provided $1,500.00 each year for the purpose of developing leadership skills, mentorship and for other professional activities and technology.
5. Moving, Relocation, Temporary Housing and Transition Expenses. The District shall pay the
Superintendent up to twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) to assist the Superintendent and his family in

DocuSign Envelope ID: 77C5C6E7-F672-44CF-8E39-5314EDFB61CF
relocating to the Twin Cities metro area. Superintendent will be reimbursed by the District upon submission of receipts to the District finance office of costs incurred related to moving, relocation, temporary housing and transition expenses.
6. Insurance Upon Termination of Employment. If the Superintendent's employment with the District terminates because the term of the Contract expires and no subsequent contract is entered into, the District shall make the following payments:
a. Payment of the premiums at the actual dollar amount of whatever contribution was in effect at the time of termination for the Superintendent and the Superintendent's dependents for health and hospitalization, and dental insurance coverage under the District's group health and dental insurance plans for twelve (12) months from the termination date or until the date the Superintendent and his dependents become eligible for health and hospitalization coverage from a subsequent employer, whichever is earlier.
b. If the Superintendent's employment with the District terminates before June 30, 2024 by reason of the Superintendent's disability or death, the District shall make the following payments: Payment of the full premiums for the Superintendent and the Superintendent's dependents for health and hospitalization, and dental insurance coverage under the
District's group health and dental plans for eighteen (18) months from the termination date or until the date the Superintendent and his dependents become eligible for health and hospitalization coverage from a subsequent employer, or from Medicare/Medicaid benefits, whichever is earlier. If the Superintendent dies, Superintendent's spouse and dependents shall be eligible to participate beyond the 18-month period defined above, at the spouse's expense, in the School District's group health and dental insurance plans until the end of the month in which the Superintendent's spouse becomes eligible for
Medicare/Medicaid benefits or until the Superintendent's spouse becomes eligible for health insurance from another source.
7. Calculation. For purposes of calculating any per diem payment including, but not limited to, compensation for personal time off payments, the per diem shall be calculated by dividing the
Superintendent's base salary by 260.
8. Severability. If any provision of this Contract is held to be invalid by operation of law the remainder of the Contract shall not be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect. This Contract shall be effective only upon signatures of the Superintendent and of the officers of the School Board after authorization for such signatures by the officers is given by the School Board in appropriate action in its minutes.
9. Governing Law. This Contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
State of Minnesota without giving any effect to any choice or conflict provision of law that would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Minnesota.
10. Entire Agreement. This Agreement shall be deemed to express, embody and supersede all previous understandings, agreements and commitments, whether written or oral, between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and to fully and finally set forth the entire agreement between the parties hereto. No modifications shall be binding unless stated in writing and signed by all parties hereto.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 77C5C6E7-F672-44CF-8E39-5314EDFB61CF
11. Construction. The parties and their respective counsel have had the opportunity to review and revise this Agreement and acknowledge that the normal rule of construction that any ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall not be employed in the interpretation of this Agreement.
Signature page follows remainder left blank.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 77C5C6E7-F672-44CF-8E39-5314EDFB61CF
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed I N W I T N E S S W H E R E O F , w e h a v e
26th
26th my signature this _________________ subscribed our signature this ______________
May
May day of ______________ , 2021. day of _______________ , 2021.
Board Chair
Superintendent
Board Clerk
11