Jay T. Squires*† Tessa S. Wagner
Michael J. Waldspurger* Marcus B. Jardine
Amy E. Mace William M. Seiler
Trevor S. Helmers* Dalia N. Istephanous
John P. Edison* Molly M. Fischl
Liz J. Vieira* Craig W. Hardie
Zachary J. Cronen Maxwell S. Blosser
Michael J. Ervin* Jesse C. Peterson
Abigail R. Kelzer
*Also Admitted in Wisconsin
†Real Property Specialist Certified - MN State Bar Association
MEMORANDUM
TO: Robbinsdale Area Schools Board of Education
FROM: Mick J. Waldspurger & Liz J. Vieira, Attorneys
DATE: 11/27/2024
RE: Board Follow-Up on Investigation Report
This report provides a written summary of some of the items we will discuss at the
Board's December 2, 2024 Business Meeting.
Some members of the Board have indicated interest in further discussing the
Investigation Report. While we continue to recommend against having a public meeting to reconsider the completed report, the Board requested our input on what such a meeting could look like.
Themes from Board Feedback
Some themes emerged amongst Board Members in the feedback they provided us about the purpose of such meeting. Those themes include:
 Closure/ moving on
 Acceptance of results
 Conflict resolution
 Retribution
 Self-interest
Recommendation
It continues to be our strong recommendation that the Board engage a facilitator trained in restorative practices. The Board would work with the facilitator to determine the process and goals. The structure would likely be different from mediation which was previously unsuccessful. This approach would address many of the Board Members'
stated reasons for meeting such as closure, acceptance of results, and conflict resolution.
333 South Seventh Street, Suite 2800, Minneapolis, MN 55402
office (612) 436•4300 • fax (612) 436•4340 • raswlaw.com

11/27/2024
It also provides an opportunity for a facilitated discussion of the report if discussion is truly what Board Members want.
In the alternative, the Board could consider other team-building and professional development opportunities guided by professionals trained in the desired area. The common thread amongst these approaches is that they are oriented toward how the Board can work together moving forward, rather than solely being focused on the past.
Potential Format for Public Meeting
For a myriad of reasons, some previously shared and others to be shared at the meeting, we continue to think that a public revisiting of the Investigation Report is illadvised. The Board must prioritize the needs of the District and its students over personal disputes.
That said, if it is the Board's desire to do so, we suggest the following parameters.
A. The Board must agree to written rules of procedure in advance. The full
Board must comply with those rules regardless of whether an individual member voted for them, which is consistent with Norm #1 that the Board speaks with one voice. The subsequent section identifies proposed rules.
B. The Board will hold a special meeting that is limited to action items based on the conclusions stated in the Investigation Report. If the Board wants to have discussion without action, then professional development is appropriate. Any new complaints about conduct that was not investigated will be addressed by the Board using a separate process. Correspondingly, the conclusions in the Investigation Report will not be revisited by the
Board in future meetings, except as required by law.
C. All Board Members must accept the conclusions in the Investigation Report as true. This means that only the following conclusions may form the basis
1
for Board action:
1. Director Holmes did not comport with the Board's core values and governance policies in connection with the April 8, 2024 meeting with the police chiefs, specifically recording the meeting and drafting/ posting minutes. (p. 17)
1
Page 24 includes the Investigator's conclusion that Director Brooks violation the
Board's core values and governance policies, as well as Policy 413. Director Brooks has already received a censure for such conduct and it would not be appropriate to either revisit that action or impose new consequences for the same conduct.
4872-1934-5136, v. 3

11/27/2024
2. Director Long violated Board's core values and governance policies by asking Director Brooks to remove herself from consideration for the Xiong Award and by asking other School Board members to boycott the MSBA luncheon. (p. 24)
3. Chair Bowman did not conform to the core values and norms by sending an email to Director Brooks that stated: "We will discuss and vote for both you and Director Bassett regarding Board Member travel during a time of $20 million worth of cuts and a moratorium on out of state, professional development travel for staff. Happy to put that on the agenda." (p. 26)
4. Director Brooks violated the Board's core values and governance policies with her conduct toward Director Vento at the June 11, 2024
policy committee meeting, specifically her comment "I am not your slave" in the context of her "documented history of invoking race in response to disagreements with other School Board members." (p.
33)
5. Director Vento violated the Board's core values and governance policies with his conduct toward Director Brooks at the June 11,
2024 policy committee meeting, specifically his statements that he was "f***ing frustrated" and something akin to "I don't f*** believe you said that" or "don't ever say that f***ing word to me again" in response to Director Brooks' statement "I am not your slave."
Proposed Rules
1. Board appoints a non-Board Member to serve as chair (which could be legal counsel). Under Robert's Rules, the Board would vote to suspend the rules to allow a non-member to serve as chair for that portion of the meeting.
2. Any motions must be submitted in writing to legal counsel by a specified deadline. Any motion must identify the nature and basis for the motion, which must be conclusions from the Investigation Report. Motions must be matters within the Board's control, i.e. discipline of members. To ensure compliance with Minnesota Statutes Section 123B.09, no motion to remove a Board Member will be heard at this meeting; however, a member may make a motion to pursue removal proceedings. If passed, such motion
4872-1934-5136, v. 3

11/27/2024
would result in scheduling a subsequent meeting to consider removal
2
consistent with the statute.
a. Legal counsel will screen motions to determine whether the motion is legally within the Board's authority and based on conclusions in the Investigation Report.
b. Legal counsel will prepare the agenda. The agenda will identify each topic as "Consideration of Discipline of Director [NAME]." To avoid repetitive debate and repeated discipline for the same conduct, similar motions will be considered the same agenda item (i.e., if
Member A wants to censure Member C and Member B wants to remove Member C from committees for the same conduct.)
c. To avoid potential retaliatory motions, all members will receive the submitted motions and agenda simultaneously and in advance of the meeting.
d. For transparency, motions that were screened out by legal counsel will also be provided to all Board Members. Legal counsel will identify the reason for screening out the motion.
e. Consistent with the open meeting law requirements for special meetings, no agenda items may be added. A member may move to amend the agenda to withdraw a motion they submitted.
3. Rules for Debate on Motions. Consistent with Robert's Rules, debate will commence only once a motion has been made and seconded-here, those motions submitted in advance.
a. When the appropriate agenda item is reached, the member who authored a motion will make the motion. The Chair will ask for a second. Any motion that does not receive a second will fail without debate.
2
We remind the Board that removal is an extreme remedy only appropriate in the most serious cases of misconduct. We reference it here only because it is something within the
Board's authority to propose.
4872-1934-5136, v. 3

11/27/2024
b. The member who made the motion will be allowed to speak first and have three minutes to present their position.
c. The member who is the subject of the motion will be allowed to speak second and have three minutes to present their position.
d. Other Board Members will be allowed to speak once for 2 minutes on the pending motion.
e. After all Board Members who wish to speak have had their turns, the member who made the motion and the member who is the subject of the motion will each have 2 minutes to speak, if they choose.
f. The Chair will call the previous question (i.e. end debate) after the above speaking has taken place or been offered. Debate will end
3
unless a supermajority vote to continue debate.
4. Conduct During Debate.
a. Speakers may not ask questions of other members during their speaking time. Points of order are appropriately addressed to the
Chair.
b. Statements must be directed to the Chair and oriented toward whether or not the motion should be adopted.
c. If a member leaves the room during debate, they forfeit their speaking time on that motion.
d. Personal attacks and inflammatory language will be ruled out of order and may result in cutting the speaker's time short. Members should focus on the conduct documented in the Investigation Report as the basis for discipline, not on qualities of the member who engaged in that conduct.
e. Stray comments outside of the speaker's recognized debate time, including interrupting other speakers, will be immediately ruled out
3
As used in this document, a "supermajority" is all of the Board Members in attendance minus one-so 6 of 7, 5 of 6, 4 of 5, etc.
4872-1934-5136, v. 3

11/27/2024
of order. Violations that disrupt the process will be subject to consequences as determined by the Chair, which may include forfeiture of future speaking time. Repeated violations may be referred to the Board for consideration at a subsequent meeting.
f. Debate must be based on the conclusions in the investigation report and not any extraneous matter.
5. Appeals from the decision of the chair will only be sustained if a supermajority votes to overturn the appeal.
6. Action on the motions submitted in advance must take place at the designated meeting. These motions may not be tabled or postponed indefinitely.
7. The Board agrees to adhere to both the letter and spirit of its approved rules. This means no attempting to game the system to achieve a prohibited outcome through procedural maneuvers. For example, a member cannot avoid the prohibition on tabling or postponing main motions by tabling a subsidiary motion.
4872-1934-5136, v. 3