Independent School District 281 Administrative Procedure 606.1
Robbinsdale Area Schools
606.1 AP LIBRARY MATERIALS
Responsibility for Selection
The Media Specialist has primary responsibility for selecting print and non-print resources for inclusion into that campus' media center with input from media center personnel, students, staff, and administration. The campus Principal, ISD 281 Superintendent, and School Board have financial authority to purchase resources.
Requests for new materials will be reviewed by the Media Specialist using numerous review sources and will be purchased promptly if deemed appropriate and meet the purpose of the media centers.
Criteria
The following criteria will be used to determine inclusion in RAS media centers::
● Resources will support and be consistent with the general educational goals of state standards and building curriculum.
● Resources will be chosen to enrich and support the curriculum and personal needs of users.
● Resources will meet high standards of quality.
Procedures for Selection of Resources
In selecting resources, professional personnel will evaluate available resources and needs and consult reputable, professionally prepared aids to selection and other appropriate
Sources. Staff will consult professional journals as needed when determining placement in RAS
Media Centers.
Reconsideration of Specific Library Collection Material
The Robbinsdale Area Schools' school board adopted Policy 606.5 (Library Materials), under which the school board delegated responsibility for selecting and evaluating library materials to school district staff. This policy establishes procedures for formal reconsideration of specific library collection material.
A Robbinsdale Area Schools' school district employee, student, or a parent or guardian
Draft of a currently enrolled school district student may request reconsideration of specific library material based on appropriateness. Please complete this form to request a formal review of a specific item in the media center's collection
Reconsideration of Specific Library Collection Material
Cross References: Equity Policy