Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Policy 214
Adopted:
214 POLICY - BOARD PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND OUT-OF-STATE TRAVEL
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to: a. encourage Board members to participate in professional development activities designed for them so that they may perform their responsibilities; b.
ensure that public funds are used lawfully, judiciously, and responsibly; and c. regulate out-of-state travel by Board members as required by law.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
Board members have an obligation to be informed about the proper duties and functions of a school board member, become familiar with issues that may affect the District, have a basic understanding of school finance and budgeting, and sufficient knowledge to comply with federal, state, and local laws, rules, regulations and District policies that relate to their role as
Board members.
III. PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
A. New Board members must attend Phase I and Phase II orientation and training sessions sponsored by the Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) within 180 days of their election or appointment to the Board, including training in school finance and management.
B. New Board Members will receive a school board manual and an orientation provided by the Superintendent and the Board Chair.
C. All Board members are strongly encouraged to participate in ongoing professional development and training opportunities related to their role as a school board member.
These opportunities may be provided by the Board, or sponsored by school boards associations and other educational organizations committed to the advancement and improvement of public education and public schools.
DRAFT
D. Board members may be asked to share relevant professional development or training information or materials they have obtained with the rest of the Board.
IV. TRAVEL AND EXPENSES
A. Professional Development and Travel
1

Board members are encouraged to attend professional development and training opportunities available within the Twin Cities Metro Area, or virtually. They must comply with this Policy and the District's reimbursement process if they intend to seek reimbursement for their expenses.
B. Out-of-State Travel
1. At times, Board members may wish to attend professional development and training opportunities that require them to travel out-of-state. Any Board member who intends to seek reimbursement for any of their expenses associated with out-of-state opportunities and/or the travel required to access them, must receive pre-approval from the Board to be eligible for any such reimbursement.
2. Out-of-state travel is limited to travel within the continental United States which, for the purposes of this Policy, is defined as the District of Columbia, and states other than Alaska and Hawaii. Board members traveling outside the continental U.S. are not eligible for reimbursement from public funds.
C. Use of Public Funds
1. For an expenditure of public funds to be lawful, it must have a public purpose and express or implied authority.
2. The Board's expenditures, including reimbursement for Board member expenses, have a public purpose when they:
a. benefit the the school community; b. directly relate to Board activity; and c. do not mainly benefit a private interest.
3. Express authority is clearly stated in writing. Implied authority is not clearly stated in writing; it is based on other written authority.
4. In the absence of a public purpose, and/or the necessary authority for an expenditure, the Board is legally prohibited from using public funds for any purpose, including reimbursement of Board member expenses.
V. REIMBURSEMENTDRAFT
A. Reimbursable Expenses
Professional development and training expenses eligible for reimbursement may include transportation costs, meals, lodging, registration fees, required materials, parking fees, tips, and other reasonable and necessary District-related expenses.
2

B. Non-Reimbursable Expenses
1. The following expenses will not be reimbursed:
a. any and all costs and expenses, including but not limited to transportation, lodging, and meals for the benefit of, associated with, or incurred by any person, including family members or friends, other than the Board member; b. alcoholic beverages; c. any expenses in excess of the total amount allocated in that fiscal year for Board member attendance at, travel to, or participation in professional development or training opportunities.
d. expenses requiring documentation or pre-approval that have not been properly documented or pre-approved; and/or e. events sponsored by or affiliated with a political party.
2. Board members who do not comply with this Policy or follow the District's reimbursement process will not receive reimbursement for their expenses. Board members will be personally liable for non-reimbursable or otherwise unreimbursed expenses.
C. Reimbursement Process
1. Requests for reimbursement must be itemized on the official District form then in use and submitted to the designated administrator. Receipts for lodging, commercial transportation, registration, and other reasonable and necessary expenses must be attached to the reimbursement form.
2. Reimbursement for automobile travel is based on the mileage rate specified by the District. Reimbursement for commercial transportation is limited to: the cost of economy travel, such as an economy seat on an airplane; or the actual cost of the transportation used by the Board member, whichever is less.
3. The Superintendent is directed to develop, and update as necessary: a schedule
DRAFT
of reimbursement rates for allowable expenses, including those expenses requiring advance approval and specific rates of reimbursement; and directives and guidelines related to the methods and times for submission of reimbursement requests.
This policy must be reviewed annually by the Board and any subsequent changes must be approved by a recorded vote.
3

The following references include some of the laws, regulations, and/or policies which are related to the topics contained in this Policy. This is not an exhaustive list and is provided for information purposes only.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 123B.09, Subd. 2 (Boards of Independent School Districts)
Minn. Stat. § 471.661 (Out-of-State Travel)
Minn. Stat. § 471.665 (Mileage Allowances)
Minn. Op. Atty. Gen. 1035 (Aug. 23, 1999) (Retreat Expenses)
Minn. Op. Atty. Gen. 161b-12 (Aug. 4, 1997) (Transportation Expenses)
Cross References: None
DRAFT
4