Robbinsdale Area Schools
Independent School District 281
Approved: January 26, 2015
Revised: July 25, 2023
Approved: August 7, 2023
Revised and Approved: September 2024
604 POLICY - INSTRUCTIONAL CURRICULUM
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to provide for the development of course offerings for students.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OR POLICY
A. Instruction must be provided in at least the following subject areas:
1. basic communication skills including reading and writing, literature, and fine arts;
2. mathematics and science;
3. social studies, including history, geography, economics, government, and citizenship;
4. health and physical education;
5. the arts;
6. career and technical education; and;
7. world languages.
[Note: The school district must use the current world languages standards developed by the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages.
World languages programs should be developed and implemented to acknowledge and reinforce the language proficiency and cultural awareness that non-English language speakers already possess and encourage students'
proficiency in multiple world languages. Programs also must encompass indigenous American Indian languages and cultures, among other world languages and cultures. School districts may award Minnesota World Language
Proficiency Certificates consistent with Minnesota Statutes section 120B.022, subdivision 1.]
B. The basic instructional program shall include all courses required for each grade level by the Minnesota Department of Education and courses required in all elective subject areas.
The instructional approach will be nonsexist and multicultural.
C. Public elementary and middle schools must offer and require at least two, of the following

four art areas: dance, music, theater, and visual arts. High schools shall offer at least three, and require at least one, of the following five art areas: media arts, dance, music, theater, and visual arts.
D. The school district must establish and regularly review its own standards for career and technical education (CTE) programs. Standards must align with CTE frameworks developed by the Department of Education, standards developed by national CTE
organizations, or recognized industry standards.
E. The school district, at its discretion, may offer additional courses in the instructional program at any grade level.
F. Each instructional program shall be planned for optimal benefit taking into consideration the financial condition of the school district and other relevant factors. Each program plan should contain goals and objectives, materials, minimum student competency levels, and methods for student evaluation.
G. The superintendent or designee shall have discretionary authority to develop guidelines and directives to implement school board administrative procedures relating to instructional curriculum.
H. The school district may not discriminate against or discipline a teacher or principal on the basis of incorporating into curriculum contributions of persons in a federally protected class or state protected class when the included contribution is in alignment with standards and benchmarks adopted under Minnesota Statutes, sections 120B.021 and 120B.023.
III. PROCESS
The superintendent is directed to develop administrative procedure 603 for Instructional
Curriculum Administrative Procedure and Processes for the School District that meet the state and federal requirements established in law or rule.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 120A.22 (Compulsory Instruction)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.021 (Required Academic Standards)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.022 (Elective Standards)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.023 (Benchmarks)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.101 (Curriculum)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.125 (Planning for Students' Successful Transition to
Postsecondary Education and Employment; Personal Learning Plans)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.20 (Parental Curriculum Review
Minn. Stat. § 120B.021 (Required Academic Standards)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.022 (Elective Standards)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.023 (Benchmarks Implement, Supplement Statewide Academic
Standards)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.234 (Child Sexual Abuse Prevention Education)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.236 (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and Automatic External
Defibrillator Instruction)

Cross References: RAS Policy 603 (Curriculum Development) MSBA/MASA RAS Policy 605
(Alternative Programs)
RAS Policy 102.1 (Equity)