A Goals- and
Standards-Based
Superintendent Evaluation
A Resource for School Board Members and Superintendents
MASA
Minnesota Association of School Administrators
Revised: July 2020

Goals- and Standards-Based
Superintendent Evaluation
A Resource for School Board Members and Superintendents
Minnesota School Boards Association
Minnesota Association of School Administrators
INTRODUCTION
This guide, along with the supporting resources, is designed to help school board members and superintendents implement an effective, meaningful superintendent evaluation process that is focused on improving student achievement.
The resources referenced in this document were developed jointly by staff of the Minnesota
School Boards Association (MSBA) and staff and officers of the Minnesota Association of School
Administrators (MASA).
The basis for all resources are the Program Requirements for All Administrative Licenses,
Subparts "1" and "2" (Minnesota Rules 3512.0510).
FOR MORE INFORMATION
MSBA
Kirk Schneidawind, Executive Director
Phone: 800-324-4459 or
507-934-2450
Email: kschneidawind@mnmsba.org
MASA
Deb Henton, Ed.D., Executive Director
Phone: 651-645-6272 or
651-439-7719 (cell)
Email: deb.henton@mnasa.org i

PREFACE
Effective school boards recognize that hiring the right superintendents to lead and manage the school districts they serve is one of their most important duties. Delegating authority and holding the superintendent accountable are vital. Effective school boards also know that they have a duty to themselves and their communities to determine whether the authority delegated to the superintendents is being used as intended. As a result, evaluating the superintendent's performance should be a major focus of the school board and, by extension, the superintendent.
The Superintendent Evaluation: A Resource for School Board Members and Superintendents
(Resource) is divided into three parts as outlined in the Table of Contents. Part 1 provides basic information to help school board-superintendent teams gain knowledge of evaluation principles and holding a closed meeting for superintendent evaluation. Part 2 provides a three-step process for establishing an evaluation that includes both performance goals and standards of performance and information about holding the mid-year and end-of-year evaluations. Part 3
includes examples of evidence of superintendent performance (such as documents, communications, etc.), sample evaluation forms, and a copy of Minnesota Rules 3512.0510.
The information in this Resource provides a framework for effective superintendent evaluations.
School board and superintendent teams may choose to focus on establishing a goals-based evaluation; others may choose to develop a hybrid that includes a limited number of performance goals and standards of performance; others may choose a different model or opt to continue using the tool(s) and processes they are currently using. Whichever option the school board-superintendent team selects, the most important consideration is to commit to holding at least an annual evaluation of the superintendent's performance.
Before beginning to read the content of this Resource, two terms used throughout this document should be explained. From this point, the phrase, "performance standard," is a written criteria against which a superintendent's work is assessed to determine growth and/or functioning.
While the superintendent's job description lays out what must be done, performance standards provide the superintendent with specific expectations for each job duty. The phrase,
"performance goal," is a statement that describes the desired outcome(s) of the superintendent's work. Performance goals are job specific, measurable, and should support the school district's mission, vision, and beliefs.
Finally, training for both the school board and superintendent is suggested prior to implementing the tool.
ii

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Part 1: Evaluation Overview
Reasons to Evaluate the Superintendent 2
Elements of a Comprehensive Superintendent Evaluation 3
How to Evaluate Objectively and Fairly 4
Timeline for Superintendent Evaluation 5
Closed Meeting for Superintendent Evaluation 7
Superintendent Job Description 8
Part 2: Developing a Goals- and Standards-Based Evaluation and Process
Step 1: Establish Goals and Select Standards 11
Standard 1: Governance Team 14
Standard 2: School District Finances 15
Standard 3: Communication and Community Relationships 16
Standard 4: School District Operations 17
Standard 5: Human Resources 19
Standard 6: Teaching and Learning 20
Standard 7: Student Support 21
Standard 8: Ethical and Inclusive Leadership 23
Step 2: Schedule and Hold a Mid-Year Evaluation 25
Preparing for the Mid-Year and End-of-Year Evaluation Meetings 25
Step 3: Schedule and Hold an End-of-Year Summative Evaluation Meeting 26
Tips for Conducting a Fair and Objective Evaluation Meeting 27
Part 3: Appendices
Evidence Samples A-1 - A-3
Goals and Standards Evaluation Forms/Examples
Sample Form 1 - Establish Goals and Standards A-4
Sample Form 2 - Mid-Year Formative Evaluation A-5
Sample Form 3 - School Board's Final End-of-Year Summative Evaluation A-6
Sample Form 4 - Final Performance Summary Sheet A-7
Sample Form 5 - Superintendent Self-Evaluation Form (Optional) A-8 - A-9
iii

OVERVIEW OF PART 1
Part 1: Evaluation Overview
1. Evaluation Overview
• Reasons to Evaluate the Superintendent
• Components of a Comprehensive Superintendent Evaluation
• How to Evaluate Objectively and Fairly
2. Timeline for Superintendent Evaluation
3. Closed Meeting for Superintendent Evaluation
4. Superintendent Job Description
1

PART 1: EVALUATION OVERVIEW
1. Reasons to Evaluate the Superintendent
Evaluation of a superintendent's performance is one of a school board's most important responsibilities. A school board's evaluation of its superintendent is an inherent managerial right unless negotiated away.
Wise school boards avoid limiting the school board's inherent managerial rights in the superintendent's employment contract. Each school board member should review the superintendent's employment contract to determine the evaluation-related provisions, if any, that may be included.
Done correctly, an evaluation is a useful governance tool that helps drive school improvement. In fact, a high-quality evaluation process enhances positive school boardsuperintendent relationships, improves communication, clarifies leadership roles, creates common understandings, and provides a mechanism for satisfying the public's desire for accountability.
DO DON'T
Collaborate with the superintendent on DON'T expect either the school board or expectations, process, and timeline the superintendent to manage the evaluation alone
Develop an effective process for the entire DON'T appoint a school board committee school board to engage in the evaluation or a single school board member to conduct the evaluation
Develop agreed-upon ratings along with DON'T provide only the agreed-upon written commentary, feedback, and ratings recommendations to the superintendent
Compile one final evaluation summary so DON'T prepare separate, individual that the school board speaks with one evaluations from each school board voice member
Allow time for the school board to discuss DON'T conduct the evaluation as a one-way the results and for the superintendent to communication from the school board to give input and respond to the evaluation the superintendent
2

2. Elements of a Comprehensive Superintendent Evaluation
Principle Rationale
Provide opportunities for personal and Successful evaluation processes must address professional development the whole person and be oriented toward continuous improvement
Focus on improving performance (not An effective evaluation process is based on proving incompetence) providing feedback for growth, not on finding shortcomings. A school board may use evaluation for the purpose of termination, but doing so should not be the focus or priority
Provide legal, realistic, accurate, useful, and Evaluation criteria should incorporate these measurable criteria that reflect the qualities competencies in Minnesota Rules 3512.0510
Create an ongoing process connected to Evaluation is a process, not a once-a-year school district and school improvement conversation; it must be embedded in the goals and/or performance standards school district's goals and plans
Connect the school district's goals with the Goals must reflect the community's hopes for community's vision for its schools its public schools and students
Link evaluation to academic, social, and Accountability should include multiple emotional growth of all school district measures of student learning students
Recognize the importance of superintendent The superintendent's work must be concerned leadership to facilitate a better quality of life with shaping the community's future and for all inside the school community and in having a positive effect upon people's lives the community at large
3

3. How to Evaluate Objectively and Fairly
While every evaluation process includes some subjectivity, effective tools and procedures will make the process more objective. The components below will help create a quality evaluation process.
Documentation
An evaluation is more than a checklist: deciding whether expectations are met requires careful consideration of documented evidence. School board members and the superintendent should work together to reach consensus on the evidence to be used, keeping in mind that school districts already produce a variety of annual reports, curriculum studies, budget printouts, contracts, meeting minutes, and more-all of which may be used to document a superintendent's progress and accomplishments related to established goals and/or performance standards.
Criteria and Ratings
An effective evaluation requires that school board members rate performance by using criteria that are mutually agreed upon, understandable, realistic, and measurable.
Written Comments
Written comments offer school board members the opportunity to provide specific constructive praise and criticism. They provide the superintendent with useful information that can be used for continuous improvement.
Evaluation Conferences
Face-to-face meetings between a school board and its superintendent are useful to (a) discuss evaluation criteria; (b) establish goals and select performance standards; (c) determine the evaluation instrument, rating scale, and process; and (d) present supporting evidence and discuss the results of the school board's mid-year formative and year-end summative evaluations.
School boards must comply with Minnesota's Open Meeting Law (Minnesota Statutes Chapter 13D), the Minnesota Government Data Practices Act (MGDPA) (Minnesota Statutes Chapter 13), and other privacy laws. MSBA/MASA Model Policies 205 and 206, MSBA Service Manual Chapter 13 and Law
Bulletins C and I, and the Minnesota Office of the Revisor of Statutes offer additional guidance. Please also see Closed Meeting for Superintendent Evaluation on page 7.
4

4. Timeline for Superintendent Evaluation
Summer/Early Fall Winter Spring
Superintendent Self
Evaluation
Review Process
End-of-Year Summative
Evaluation
Mid-year Progress Reports
Review Performance
Summary at Board Meeting
Formative Evaluation
Create Goals and Standards
Summary at Board Meeting
Summer/Early Fall
• School board and superintendent review job description, the evaluation process, form(s), and timelines.
• Identify acceptable supporting documents, information, evidence, and data to be used to measure performance.
• School board and superintendent create goals and/or identify standards based on school district priorities and that are measurable and achievable in twelve months. If no agreement can be reached, the school board's determination prevails as it is the superintendent's employer.
Winter
• During a school board meeting, the school board chair and superintendent review evaluation process and forms with new school board members. Private data may not be shared with new school board members until after they officially take office.
• Superintendent may complete a self-evaluation, with supporting documents, to be provided to the school board. The data used to create a self-evaluation is the superintendent's sole property and is shared with the school board only if the superintendent chooses to do so.
• Superintendent makes mid-year progress reports to the school board related to the goals and standards.
• Prior to the superintendent's mid-year formative evaluation, each school board member receives the mid-year evaluation form, including the evaluation criteria (goals and standards).
A formative evaluation may include informal or formal assessment of current practice and should offer feedback suited to improve future performance.
• School board members prepare to discuss the superintendent's performance for each goal and/or standard. The school board may request an opportunity to prepare without the superintendent's presence, but the school board cannot exclude the superintendent.
5

• At the formative evaluation meeting, the school board chair leads the school board's review of the superintendent's performance. The school board may close the meeting unless the superintendent requests that the meeting be open. The school board should require that this request be in writing.
o The school board members share assessments of the superintendent's formative evaluation performance.
o The superintendent may offer clarification and/or progress reports on goals and/or standards.
o The school board seeks to reach consensus on the evaluation. The school board chair completes the evaluation form during the evaluation meeting.
• At the next open meeting, the school board summarizes its conclusions regarding the formative evaluation, in compliance with Minnesota's Open Meeting Law.
• The formative evaluation is attached to the summative evaluation when it is completed. Both documents are placed in the superintendent's personnel file.
Spring
• Each school board member receives the end-of-year summative evaluation form and the evaluation criteria.
• The school board members prepare to discuss the superintendent's performance on each goal and/or standard. The school board may request an opportunity to prepare for the summative evaluation without the superintendent's presence, but the school board cannot exclude the superintendent.
• At the evaluation meeting, the school board chair leads the school board's review of the superintendent's performance. The school board may close the meeting unless the superintendent requests that the meeting be open. The school board should require that this request be in writing.
o The school board members share their assessments of the superintendent's summative evaluation performance.
A summative evaluation is a formal evaluation that is based on all evidence collected throughout the evaluation process. The superintendent receives an overall performance rating and the evaluation is placed in the superintendent's personnel file.
o The superintendent may provide clarification and/or progress reports on the goals and/or standards.
o The school board seeks to reach consensus on the evaluation. The school board chair completes the evaluation form during the evaluation meeting.
6

• At the next open meeting, the school board summarizes its conclusions regarding the summative evaluation, in compliance with Minnesota's Open Meeting Law.
• The final written summative evaluation form is placed in the superintendent's personnel file.
5. Closed Meeting for Superintendent Evaluation
A school board may evaluate the superintendent's performance in a closed meeting. The following steps must be taken:
a) The school board provides proper notice to hold a meeting to evaluate the superintendent b) The school board meets in open session pursuant to the notice.
c) A school board member moves to close the meeting for the purpose of evaluating the superintendent. This motion must be seconded and a majority vote of the school board members present must support the motion before the school board moves into closed session.
• NOTE: If the superintendent requests that the evaluation meeting be open, the school board cannot meet in closed session. The evaluation must then be conducted in open session.
• NOTE: the superintendent has the right to attend the closed meeting.
d) The school board proceeds to the closed meeting to evaluate the superintendent.
e) After the school board completes its closed meeting, it must return to open session. The school board can proceed with the open meeting or it can move to adjourn.
f) The school board chair prepares a summary of the school board's conclusions regarding the superintendent's evaluation. The summary must summarize each specific, salient point of the evaluation and be more detailed than a statement that strengths and weaknesses or areas of growth were identified. The summary must give enough information so that a reasonable person would know what occurred without disclosure of private data.
The summary should include:
• The closed meeting date;
• The names of attendees;
• The performance areas that were reviewed, including o Whether expectations were met o Areas of strength o A summary statement of each goal o Areas of concern, if any (do not include specific personnel data that led to the concern)
g) At its next open meeting, the school board provides the summary of its conclusions regarding the superintendent's evaluation. The 'next open meeting' applies regardless of the type of meeting (such as a regular meeting, special meeting, work session, work study, etc.). If the next meeting is a special meeting, the school board should ensure that the special meeting notice includes the superintendent evaluation summary in the purpose of the special meeting notice and on the special meeting agenda.
7

The written summary should be read aloud at the meeting. Copies of the written summary should be given to the school board members at the meeting. A copy must be available at the open meeting for the public to review. The summary should be reflected in the meeting minutes.
6. Superintendent Job Description
To be effective, a superintendent must focus on meeting the regular, ongoing responsibilities that make the school district function effectively and efficiently. The superintendent must have a clearly defined job description to ensure that the school board and superintendent share a common understanding of roles and ongoing responsibilities.
The job description should be grounded in the competencies identified in Minnesota Rules 3512.0510, address the school district's specific needs, and be revisited regularly to ensure that the description accurately describes the full scope of the superintendent's roles and responsibilities. The job description must be consistent with the school board's vision, mission, and goals.
Sample Superintendent Job Description
General Position Description
The superintendent is the chief executive officer of the school district, an advisor to the school board and is directly accountable to the school board.
The superintendent is responsible for guiding and directing all school district operations and activities and for informing the school board of all needs related to the school district's current and future operations.
The superintendent shall recommend policies to the school board and shall be responsible for implementing, interpreting, and executing polices that the school board has adopted.
Specific Duties
The superintendent shall
• Provide leadership for educational programs, staff development programs, and curriculum development to provide all the school district's students the best possible learning opportunity and environment;
• Inform and advise the school board about programs, practices, and problems and keep the school board informed of the activities operating under the school board's authority;
• Explain the school district's educational needs to the school board, recommend necessary new and/or revised policies and staffing changes for school board action;
• Serve as a liaison between the school district and the community; respond to concerns of parents, students, residents, and staff to increase understanding of policies and practices and to keep them informed of and involved in school district activities;
• Oversee school district financial operations and prepare, present, and recommend a budget;
• Communicate employee proposals to the school board, recommend adjustments to employee policies and salary structures as appropriate, and manage all employee contracts and policies;
• Develop and maintain a comprehensive strategic planning process, which includes short- and long-term planning and development of school district and instructional goals;
8

• Establish and maintain working relationships with agencies and organizations outside the school district to promote the school district's best interests through contact with legislators, local government leaders, other superintendents, businesses, and others.
• Maintain and improve effective school board-superintendent relationships by participating in joint seminars and training sessions;
• Delegate responsibility and authority to school district employees as appropriate and define the authority and responsibilities of and effectively evaluate middle managers;
• Complete all required state and federal reports in a timely manner; and
• Assume ultimate responsibility for all aspects of the school district's operation.
9

OVERVIEW OF PART 2
Part 2: Developing a Goals- and Standards-based Evaluation and Process
1. Establish goals and selecting standards
• Standard 1: Governance Team
• Standard 2: School District Finances
• Standard 3: Communication and Community Relations
• Standard 4: School District Operations
• Standard 5: Human Resources
• Standard 6: Teaching and Learning
• Standard 7: Student Support
• Standard 8: Ethical and Inclusive Leadership
2. Schedule and hold a mid-year evaluation
• Preparing for the mid-year and end-of-year evaluation meetings
3. Schedule and hold an end-of-year summative evaluation meeting
• Tips for Conducting a Fair and Objective Evaluation Meeting
10

PART 2: DEVELOPING A GOALS- AND STANDARDS-BASED EVALUATION
Planning is essential to developing an effective goals- and standards-based evaluation. A goal establishes shared expectations for the superintendent's individual job performance. Standards focus on objectives the school district is directed toward. Goals- and standards-based evaluations are important because they help communicate expectations to the superintendent regarding individual improvement and districtlevel aspirations.
To set goals and standards, the school board must decide how the superintendent should spend the bulk of his or her time to help the school district meet its strategic priorities and goals. The school board and superintendent team must decide the areas that are most in need of the superintendent's attention.
The school board and superintendent are encouraged to develop the evaluation criteria and processes that meet their school district's needs. A hybrid approach that includes a limited number of performance goals and standards may be most helpful to the school board and superintendent. The process of setting performance goals, selecting the standards, and conducting the evaluation can be divided into three steps:
Step 1: Establish goals and standards
Step 2: Schedule and hold a mid-year formative evaluation meeting
Step 3: Schedule and hold an end-of-year summative evaluation meeting
Each step of the process is outlined below.
Step 1: Establish Goals and Select Standards
The school board and superintendent establish two or three district-focused goals and one or two professional development goals for the superintendent. The goals should be clearly aimed at improving student learning, the climate for student learning, and other specific areas of operational oversight. The goals detail expectations for the superintendent to accomplish during the next twelve months, understanding that circumstances may necessitate modifications during the year. Minnesota Rules
3512.0510, which can be helpful in setting superintendent goals, can be found beginning on page A-10.
When possible, measurable progress indicators (the evidence the school board expects to receive from the superintendent for use in determining whether the goals have been accomplished) should be mutually agreed upon by the school board and superintendent. Each measurable progress indicator should be clear, understood by both the school board and superintendent, and recorded under the goal. The sample document found on page A-1 details two possible superintendent goals and evidence associated with each goal.
Once the goals have been selected and the relevant evidence is identified, the school board and superintendent work together to identify standards to be assessed based on the school district's strategic goals and priorities. Each standard includes specific elements that further define the superintendent's responsibilities within the standard. The level of performance is progressive in nature and moves from ineffective to highly effective.
11

Each standard will not be assessed annually. Each year, the parties will select two or three standard(s) and all or some of the elements within the selected standard(s). Lastly, a standard may support (an)
established superintendent goal(s), school district goal(s), or a clearly defined operational or organizational area of focus. A list of eight possible standards and associated elements is provided below.
A sample completed evaluation form that includes both goals- and standards-based criteria can be found beginning on page A-4.
Evidence of performance for each goal (measures and/or progress indicators for each goal) that the superintendent must provide should also be identified.
Standard Elements
Governance Team
• Roles and Responsibilities
• Goals and/or Strategic Plan
• Policy Implementation
• Information for Decision-Making
• School Board Questions and Development
School District Finances
• Budget Development and Maintenance
• Financial Statements
• Financial Controls
• Bond and Levy
• Asset Protection
Communication and Community
• Relationship with the Community
Relationships
• Engagement
• Informs the Community as a Whole
• Advocacy
• Media
• Visibility and Approachability
School District Operations
• Facilities
• Transportation
• Food Service
• Technology
• Maintenance
• Personnel
Human Resources
• Internal Communications
• Personnel Concerns
• Delegation of Duties
• Visibility and Approachability
• Hiring and Staff Development
• Collective Bargaining and Union Relations
• Evaluation
Teaching and Learning
• Staff Development
• School Improvement
• Curriculum and Instruction
• Professional Knowledge of Teaching and Learning
• Culture of Cooperation
Student Support
• Student Engagement and Feedback
• Student Attendance
• Support for Students
• Student Discipline
• Culture of Cooperation
• School Safety and Security
• Emotional Health and Social Needs
12

Ethical and Inclusive Leadership
• Ethics and Professional Behavior
• Interactions with Staff, Students, and Community
• Professional Practice
• Diverse Communities
• Cultural Competency
• Equity Plan Implementation
13

Standard 1. Governance Team
Element 1.a. Roles and Responsibilities
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Models adherence to school Works with the school Articulates and adheres Does not articulate or board and superintendent roles board to review and refine to the roles and adhere to the roles and and responsibilities that have guidelines for effective responsibilities of the responsibilities of the been established and school board and school board and school board and articulated. Facilitates candid superintendent roles and superintendent superintendent and respectful discussion of any responsibilities issues that are unclear
Element 1.b. Goals and/or Strategic Plan
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Facilitates development of the Facilitates development of Goals have been Goals are not school district's short- and the school district's short- developed but no overall developed.
long-term measurable goals and long-term goals and plan or alignment of and aligns available resources recommends necessary resources exists with school district's budget to financial strategies to meet accomplish goals goals
Element 1.c. Policy Implementation
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Leads in determining school Consults with school board Occasionally acts without Does not follow or rely district needs and policy when questions of policy following school board on school board policy.
priorities; facilitates regular interpretation arise; follows policy Uses personal discretion review and revision of school school board policy in in decision-making board policy and policy decision-making development process
Element 1.d. Information for Decision-Making
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Collaborates with school board Assists school board in Shares information with Does not provide timely to review and improve value of understanding multiple a few school board information needed for information and guidance perspectives surrounding members for decision- effective school board provided to the board for issues as well as possible making in a timely decision-making; effective decision-making; implications of decisions; manner; provides meeting materials are ensures meeting materials are provides meeting materials incomplete meeting not readily available; comprehensive, with adequate and background and materials that do not members do not receive background information and historical perspectives; include adequate enough information possible action; offers includes recommendations background information regarding agenda or thorough, timely, and prudent or historical perspective background information recommendations
Element 1.e. School Board Inquiries and Development
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Answers school board School board questions are School board questions School board questions questions thoroughly to ensure addressed with follow-up to are answered, but not all are rarely answered.
understanding; actively and members most of the time. members are apprised of Does not promote continuously encourages school Provides members with relevant questions and school board board development by seeking information regarding answers. When asked, development. No and communicating school school board development provides members with communication board development opportunities when they information about school protocols exist opportunities; creates, follows arise. Communication board development.
and annual reviews protocols exist and are Communication protocols communication protocols followed most of the time exist, but are rarely followed
14

Standard 2. School District Finances
Element 2.a. Budget Development and Maintenance
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Engages in timely budget Engages in proactive Budget development, Budget knowledge is planning and actions that budget actions that resource allocations, and limited. Budget is consider current and long- consider current management is focused developed and range information and data; information and data; seeks on meeting immediate managed without seeks balance to meet balance to meet the needs and fiscal issues. taking into students' current and future students' needs and be Decisions are primarily consideration current needs and be fiscally fiscally responsible to reactive to current needs needs of the school responsible to community; community; distributes of the school district district. Resources are distributes resources to meet resources in light of school allocated without immediate and long-range district goals and consideration of school objectives immediate objectives district needs
Element 2.b. Financial Statements
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Provides constant flow of Regularly reports to the Reports status of Does not report budgetary and/or financial school board concerning financial accounts as financial information to information and discussion of budget and financial status requested by school school board other than ramifications of changes board annual audit
Element 2.c. Financial Controls
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Promotes appropriate financial Is current with general and Uses annual audit to Annual audit reveals controls, including third-party state accounting reveal discrepancies; areas in need of audits and reconciliation of procedures; maintains internal controls are improvement; financial accounts; implements internal controls inconsistent accounts are not in preventive measures to protect order school district finances
Element 2.d. Bond and Levy Campaigns
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Helps school board assure that Helps school board develop Helps school board Does not provide school levy and bond campaigns meet community engagement assure that levy and board with timely and immediate fiscal needs and strategies that build bond campaigns are helpful guidance on advance long-term school support for levies and conducted in legally conducting levy and district goals and/or priorities bonds correct and fiscally bond campaigns responsible manner
Element 2.e. Asset Protection
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Protects school district's fiscal Provides some oversight of Provides limited Does not provide health by continually seeking school district resource oversight of school oversight of school efficiencies and identifying new allocations and decisions, district resources, district resources, sources of funding, such as including fiscal investments, including fiscal including fiscal grants and investment grant funding investments, grant investments, grant opportunities; follows school opportunities, fixed assets, funding opportunities, funding opportunities, district policies and procedures and external resources; and fixed assets; does and fixed assets; has to ensure funds and property usually follows policies; not consistently follow not developed policies are secure; bases ensures alignment between policies; some alignment to guide asset-related recommendations and school district assets and exists between school decisions; makes fiscal decisions on school district priorities to support district assets and decisions that do not approved priorities and needs improved instructions and priorities align with school district other key goals priorities and/or are wasteful
15

Standard 3. Communication and Community Relationships
Element 3.a. Relationships with the Community
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Builds and sustains productive Creates relationships with Reluctantly seeks some Has no relationships relationships with public and public and private sectors relationships with public with public and private private sectors, such as local or private sectors sectors and shows no law enforcement, MSBA, interest in pursuing
MASA, etc. partnerships
Element 3.b. Engagement
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Seeks out and provides Solicits input from select Very rarely seeks input Demonstrates lack of opportunities for input from external groups and from external groups and regard for input and external groups and individuals individuals influence of external individuals; uses the input in groups and individuals decision-making process
Element 3.c. Informs the Community as a Whole
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Actively keeps community Keeps community members Keeps only some Does not provide informed with appropriate, informed of school district community members information community regular communication on issues and/or concerns as informed of school needs to understand variety of school district topics, needed so school board district issues and/or school district issues issues, and/or concerns, may meet its concerns, limiting school and/or concerns, allowing school board to meet responsibilities board's ability to meet its hindering school its responsibilities responsibilities board's ability to meet its responsibilities
Element 3.d. Advocacy
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Works with school board and Assumes leadership role Engages with Does not engage with staff to build relationships with through numerous contacts government officials to city, township, county, government officials to with government officials protect students' state, and federal promote students' interests to protect and promote interests officials (government and influence appropriate students' interests officials) to protect responses to government students' interests actions
Element 3.e. Media
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Actively engages media; Is cooperative with media; Passively and reluctantly Does not communicate maintains professionalism with seeks to promote school communicates with with community media; seeks to promote district in media media school district in media and community
Element 3.f. Visibility and Approachability
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Is visible and approachable by Is visible and approachable Attends few events and Is neither visible nor members of the community; by community; attends is seldom approachable approachable by attends many and varied some events. by community community events
16

Standard 4. School District Operations
Element 4.a. Facilities
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Ensures facilities management Ensures facilities Discusses facilities needs Facilities management plan is in place and includes management plan is in internally, but no plan is plan is not created; current status of buildings and place and includes current created; addresses issues maintenance is need to improve facilities in status of buildings and on an as-needed basis performed only when the future, with projected plan need to improve facilities in absolutely needed to secure funding the future
Element 4.b. Transportation*
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Ensures transportation Ensures transportation Transportation Transportation department operates department operates department operates on department operates efficiently and effectively; has efficiently and effectively day-to-day basis without haphazardly without long-range plan for replacing most of the time; has long- long-range plan for long-range plan for school district vehicles as range plan for replacing replacing school district replacing school district needed school district vehicles as vehicles as needed vehicles as needed needed
Element 4.c. Food Service**
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Ensures food service operates Ensures food service Food service operates Food service operates efficiently and effectively and operates efficiently and with a deficit; meals with a deficit; meals do offers nutritious and appealing effectively most of the time meet government not meet government meals that meet or exceed and that meals meet standards standards and are government standards government standards neither nutritious nor appealing
Element 4.d. Technology
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Is open to future needs and Ensures technology plan in Technology plan in place, No technology plan in trends in technology; ensures place with long-range plan but no replacement plan place; no replacement technology plan is in place and to replace and upgrade for hardware, software, plan for hardware, includes long-range plan to hardware, software, and and infrastructure software, and replace and upgrade infrastructure infrastructure hardware, software, and infrastructure
Element 4.e. Maintenance***
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Ensures maintenance Ensures maintenance Maintenance Maintenance department operates department operates department operates on department operates efficiently and effectively and efficiently and effectively day-to-day basis, with no haphazardly with no has a system for reporting most of the time; most system for reporting system for reporting and/or handling work orders in work orders are completed and/or handling work and/or handling work timely manner; schedule for in timely manner orders orders maintenance is in place and is followed
Element 4.f. Personnel
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Ensures sites are staffed Most sites are staffed Multiple sites lack Staff level is inadequate appropriately; staff receive on- appropriately; staff receive appropriate number of across school district going professional on-going professional staff; professional with no professional development development development is offered, development offered, but not consistently used or, if offered, not utilized
17

* Note 4.b.: Safety is a concern regardless of whether the school district operates its own transportation services or contracts with an outside vendor.
**Note 4.c.: Providing nutritious meals is important regardless of whether the school district operates its own food service or contracts with an outside vendor.
***Note 4.e.: School district facilities and grounds management is important regardless of whether the school district operates its own maintenance programming or contracts with an outside vendor.
18

Standard 5. Human Resources
Element 5.a. Internal Communications
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Establishes system for keeping Keeps staff informed of Inconsistently keeps Lacks specific system to staff continually informed of most important matters staff informed of inform staff of important matters and allowing and seeks input annually important matters important matters or opportunities for regular input fails to seek input
Element 5.b. Personnel Concerns
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Follows established Uses policies and Establishes policies and Policies and procedures comprehensive, proactive procedures to address procedures, but does for handling personnel system with personnel matters; personnel matters with not implement them concerns in consistent routinely discusses personnel consistency, fairness, consistently manner are not in policies discretion and impartiality place; some situations may be handled with bias or inconsistency
Element 5.c. Delegation of Duties *
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Delegates responsibility to staff Delegates responsibility to Is reluctant to place Tightly controls that will foster professional appropriate staff much authority or decisions made within growth, leadership, and decision-making with administrative team decision-making skills key staff
Element 5.d. Visibility and Approachability
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Is visible at variety of school Is visible and Seldom visits buildings; Is neither visible nor events and approachable by approachable by staff; attends few building approachable by staff; staff; prioritizes regular visits to visits buildings and/or events and activities; is is isolated from staff buildings and classrooms; classrooms not approachable consistently follows open door policies
Element 5.e. Hiring and Staff Development
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Follows established plan for Follows established plan Plan exists for No plan exists for recruiting, hiring, supporting, for recruiting, hiring, recruiting, hiring, recruiting, hiring, inducting, developing, and supporting, inducting, supporting, inducting, supporting, inducting, retaining staff while keeping developing, and retaining developing, and developing, and students' interests in mind staff retaining staff, but is retaining staff not used consistently
Element 5.f. Collective Bargaining**
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Assists school board in Is proactive in preparing Accepts that collective Does not seek to preparing for and conducting for collective bargaining bargaining is necessary understand and/or negotiations by sharing appropriate and may be challenging improve collective information bargaining
Element 5.g. Evaluation
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Puts in place appropriate Assures most staff are Assures evaluations are No performance performance evaluation evaluated annually and completed, but are evaluation system in systems; assures school district that evaluations are consistent or not in place; evaluations not staff are evaluated at least completed in a timely compliance with state completed as required annually; completes required manner; some needed law by state law evaluations; ensures necessary individualized staff development plans are in place improvement plans not and that evaluations are developed consistent across school district
*Note 5.c.: School district finances and structures impact staffing levels and administrative oversight and responsibilities.
**Note 5.f.: School district-related negotiations processes vary based on negotiations philosophy, approach, and models used.
19

Standard 6. Teaching and Learning
Element 6.a. Staff Development
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Ensures comprehensive staff Ensures staff development A staff development plan No comprehensive development plan exists and plan exists and is followed in place, but not school district staff aligns with school district and most of the time; assures consistently followed; development plan; staff school specific goals and staff development staff development development not complies with law; assures programs are based upon programs are based consistently provided; staff development programs available opportunities upon available staff are left fit school district-specific plan, targeted toward staff opportunities responsible for their goals, and priorities and focus growth and increasing improvement on increasing student student achievement achievement
Element 6.b. School Improvement
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Ensures school improvement Ensures school School improvement School improvement plans are in place at all improvement plans are in plans are in place at efforts are limited; no buildings and align with school place at all buildings and building level, but lack comprehensive plan in district-wide goals; assures align with school district- school district-wide place plans and strategies are in wide goals coordination place and used for implementing improvement efforts and monitoring progress
Element 6.c. Curriculum and Instruction
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Ensures curriculum is in place, Ensures curriculum meets Allows teachers to define Curriculum is not a aligned across grade levels, the state standards; strives their own curriculum; priority and/or is and complies with state to accommodate diverse little coordination exists; inconsistent across standards; assures learning styles, needs, and encourages teachers to grade levels; little to no instructional practices are levels of readiness; makes enhance instructional focus on instruction differentiated and some effort to incorporate skills and embrace exists; Technology not personalized to student needs technology into learning technology, but no utilized in classroom and that technology enhances comprehensive program instruction teaching and learning is in place
Element 6.d. Professional Knowledge of Teaching and Learning
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Demonstrates knowledge and Demonstrates knowledge Is somewhat Is uninvolved in current comfort with current of current instructional knowledgeable of instructional programs; instructional programs; seeks programs and is able to current instructional is unaware of current to communicate how the discuss them; seeks to programs; relies on instructional issues school district is implementing learn and improve upon others for best practices; participates personal and professional information/data actively in professional groups abilities for the school district's benefit
Element 6.e. Culture of Cooperation
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Develops and supports open, Encourages open, Haphazardly supports Culture of trust does productive, caring, and productive, caring, and open, productive, caring, not exist trusting relationships among trusting environment and trusting staff among staff environment among staff
20

Standard 7. Student Support
Element 7.a. Student Engagement and Feedback
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Empowers staff to cultivate Asks staff to foster and Ensures staff encourage Staff do not foster or and reinforce student reinforce student and reinforce student reinforce student engagement in school; student engagement in school; engagement in school; engagement; positive conduct is positive; actively most student conduct is some students engage in student conduct does seeks student input and positive; readily accepts positive conduct; accepts not exist; does not creates methods for students student input and engages student input, but does accept student input to be actively involved in students in school district- not seek it or feedback setting school district-wide wide goal setting goals
Element 7.b. Student Attendance
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Prioritizes student attendance; Focuses on attendance; Attendance is not an area Attendance is not addresses individual student plans and interventions to of focus; no plan exists to addressed as a policy attendance problems early address chronic attendance address attendance; issue; no plan to and supports are in place; problems exist, but are not attendance rates address attendance assures attendance rates are consistently implemented; fluctuate exists; attendance maintained at a high level attendance rates are rates are decreasing improving
Element 7.c. Support for Students
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Provides systems of Provides systems of Academics, supports, Academics, supports, academics, supports, services, academics, supports, services, extracurricular services, extracurricular activities, and services, extracurricular activities, and extracurricular accommodations to meet activities, and accommodations to meet activities, and range of students' learning accommodations to meet some students' range of accommodations are needs; ensures coordination most students' range of learning needs; trusting, not available for and alignment of supports; learning needs; safe, inclusive, and students; trusting, maintains safe, caring, coordination and respectful school safe, inclusive, and healthy, respectful, and alignment could be environment exists and is respectful school inclusive learning environment improved; trusting, safe, sustained for most environment does not for students inclusive, and respectful students exist for many school environment exists students
Element 7.d. Student Discipline
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Clearly defines expectations Defines expectations for Defines expectations for Does not clearly define for student behavior and student behavior and some student behavior expectations for conduct; policies identify conduct; policies identify and conduct; policies student behavior; student behaviors subject to most behaviors subject to specify some behaviors policies do not specify discipline; enforces violations discipline; enforces subject to discipline; does behaviors subject to of student discipline policy in violations of student not enforce violations of discipline; does not even-handed manner; discipline policy; student discipline policy consistently enforce communicates expectations communicates for most students; violations of student for student behavior to expectations for student provides some discipline policy; parents and students on behavior to parents and communication to communication not regular basis students, but not regularly parents and students provided to parents and students
Element 7.e. Culture of Cooperation
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Develops and supports open, Encourages open, Haphazardly supports Trusting school productive, caring, and productive, caring, and creation of open, climate does not exist trusting school culture among trusting school culture productive, caring, and students among students trusting school culture among all students
21

Element 7.f. School Safety and Security
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Ensures system-wide plan is Ensures plan has been Ensures plan has been No plan has been developed and implemented to developed and developed to assure developed to assure assure all school district implemented to assure school district buildings school district buildings and grounds are safe school district buildings and and grounds are safe and buildings and and secure; collaborates with grounds are safe and secure, including some of grounds are safe and local law enforcement and fire secure; collaborates with the required safety drills secure prevention agencies; ensures local law enforcement and use of effective crisis practicing safety drills to management strategies and ensure parties know techniques; monitors for responsibilities effectiveness; ensures drills are conducted to ensure parties know roles and responsibilities
Element 7.g. Emotional Health and Social Needs
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Ensures system-wide plan has Ensures system-wide plan Plan has been developed No plan developed to been developed and has been developed to to assure a healthy assure a healthy implemented to assure a assure a healthy school school learning and work learning and/or work healthy school and/or work and/or work environment; environment; environment; no plan environment; collaborates with collaborates with local collaborates with local for social and local mental health and social services and agencies to services to provide social emotional support services and agencies, if provide social and and emotional support options and services available, to provide services emotional support options options and services for for students and/or for students and/or staff; and services for students students and/or staff, staff exists; policies implements policies prohibiting and/or staff; ensures but is not followed prohibiting bullying bullying and harassment as policies prohibiting bullying completely; policies and/or harassment intended and evaluates on and/or harassment have prohibiting bullying do not exist ongoing basis been developed and and/or harassment implemented policies have been developed
22

Standard 8. Ethical and Inclusive Leadership
Element 8.a. Ethics and Professional Behavior
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Demonstrates commitment to Consistently models highest Follows acceptable Does not comply with highest standards of ethical standards of ethical and standards of ethical and standards of ethical and professional behavior, professional behavior, professional behavior; and professional including courage and including courage and articulates expectations behavior; does not integrity; creates climate in integrity; guides staff to for ethical and articulate which employees are highly articulate and reinforce professional behavior by expectations or conscious of ethical and high ethical and staff and with monitor compliance professional expectations and professional expectations stakeholders in for ethical and holds each other accountable; for school district staff; professional, respectful, professional behavior provides exemplary model that solicits, engages, and and trustworthy manner in the school district; influences stakeholders to act interacts with stakeholders does not interact with high degree of in professional, respectful, with others in professionalism, respect, and and trustworthy manner professional, trustworthiness respectful, and trustworthy manner
Element 8.b. Interactions with Staff, Students, and Community
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Assures that school district Guides staff to examine Frequently examines Does not examine procedures and practices are school district procedures school district school district systematically reviewed and and practices for adherence procedures and practices procedures and revised to reflect fairness and to principles of fairness and for adherence to practices for respect for human dignity for human dignity; manages principles of fairness and adherence to members of school community; dynamics of union human dignity; works to principles of fairness builds relationships with union relationships make the best of union and human dignity; is and non-affiliated employee relationships unable to work with groups through trust and union leadership; sharing appropriate does not work to information improve relationships
Element 8.c. Professional Practice
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Demonstrates high level of self- Demonstrates self- Has awareness of need Does not awareness of and commitment awareness and need for to improve on demonstrate to improve upon professional improved professional professional practice awareness of need to practice practice improve professional practice.
Element 8.d. Diverse Communities
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1)
NA
Fosters formal and informal Develops strategies to help Becomes familiar with Does not recognize or partnerships with diverse staff and the school board views and characteristics respond to the groups to support mutual become familiar with views of diverse groups within existence of diverse goals. and characteristics of the community groups in the diverse groups in the community community
Element 8.e. Cultural Competency
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) NA
Engages stakeholders to Develops strategies to help Assures that staff has Does not use develop a school district-wide staff capitalize on assets necessary cultural strategies that welcoming culture that honors that students from diverse competence to respond recognize and the values, beliefs, norms, and cultural, ethnic, racial, and to students' needs capitalize on traditions of diverse groups economic backgrounds community's and integrates diverse bring to the classroom diversity representation into school and school district decision making
23

Element 8.f. Equity Plan Implementation
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1)
NA
Ensures a coordinated, system- Ensures a system-wide plan A plan to achieve equity No plan to achieve wide plan to achieve equity for to achieve equity has been has been developed, equity has been all students and staff has been developed and including strategies for developed developed and implemented, implemented, including meaningful engagement including strategies for strategies for meaningful of students and staff meaningful engagement of engagement of students from diverse students and staff from diverse and staff from diverse communities and communities and backgrounds, communities and backgrounds strategies for recruiting diverse backgrounds, targeted staff, closing the achievement efforts to close gap, and providing staff achievement gap, and development; monitors plan is providing professional on ongoing manner development
24

Step 2: Schedule and Hold a Mid-Year Evaluation
The school board determines the superintendent evaluation process and procedures, which must comply with Minnesota's Open Meeting Law (Minnesota Statutes Chapter 13D) and the Minnesota Government
Data Practices Act (MGDPA) (Minnesota Statutes Chapter 13).*
Midway through the evaluation cycle, school board members should conduct a formative evaluation of the superintendent to assess the superintendent's progress toward the established goals and standards.
The superintendent may choose to complete a self-evaluation. The school board and superintendent should note that superintendent evaluations may be conducted more often.
The school board's completed formative evaluation form should be placed in the superintendent's personnel file and later attached to the summative evaluation. Please see the sample superintendent evaluation timeline (page 5), the sample mid-year formative evaluation form (page A-5), and the sample superintendent self-evaluation form (page A-8).
Preparing for the Mid-Year and End-of-Year Evaluation Meetings
The process and procedures for preparing for and holding the mid-year and end-of-year evaluation meetings should be developed and documented well in advance to ensure the meetings run as smoothly as possible. One process a school board might follow is provided below.
• One month prior to the evaluation, the school board schedules a closed meeting in compliance with M.S. 13D.05, Subd. 3(a) for the purpose of discussing the superintendent's performance evaluation;
• One or two weeks prior to the closed evaluation meeting, the school board chair distributes the evaluation form to the other school board members for review and preparation prior to the evaluation meeting;
• During the evaluation meeting, the school board chair leads the discussion to help the school board reach a consensus on the superintendent performance. As they review each goal and standard, the school board members should note their ratings when appropriate and provide general comments on the superintendent's progress and/or growth;
• The school board chair writes the school board members' comments and ratings on the appropriate evaluation form. After the evaluation meeting, the form completed by the school board chair becomes the school board's overall mid-year or summative evaluation of the superintendent's performance. Once signed by the superintendent and school board chair, the completed form is placed in the superintendent's personnel file.
• The school board chair ensures that the school board complies with all of the requirements of
M.S. 13D.05, Subd. 3(a).
*Note: When evaluating the superintendent's performance, school board members should be aware that any data that the school district collects is government data that may become the subject of a MGDPA
request.
25

Step 3: Schedule and Hold an End-of-Year Summative Evaluation Meeting
At the end of the evaluation cycle, the school board should conduct a summative evaluation of the superintendent. The school board assigns ratings, along with supporting evidence, based on the superintendent's accomplishment of the school board-approved goals and standards. The superintendent's presentations to the school board throughout year, other evidence and data, and an ongoing discussion of the superintendent's progress toward the goals and standards will provide school board members with important information to support their evaluation.
The school board determines the superintendent evaluation process and procedures, which must comply with Minnesota's Open Meeting Law (Minnesota Statutes Chapter 13D) and the Minnesota Government
Data Practices Act (Minnesota Statutes Chapter 13).* Please see the sample superintendent evaluation timeline (page 5) and a sample end-of-year summative evaluation (page A-6).
School board members prepare for the summative evaluation meeting by reviewing the established goals and standards to determine whether progress was made and/or growth or achievement has occurred. Each school board member should prepare to share observations and ratings for each goal and standard assessed. The school board chair facilitates the discussion and invites the superintendent to provide additional clarification/progress reports, if any, the school district-focused goals and professional development goals for the superintendent.
When considering the rating to choose, school board members should keep the following brief descriptions in mind:
• "Highly Effective" - the superintendent's performance goes above and beyond proficiency to achieve an exceptionally high level. This rating is relatively rare.
• "Effective" - the superintendent's performance is fully satisfactory, meeting all expectations at a high level. The superintendent not only meets goals and carries out plans effectively, but also shows flexibility and creativity in adjusting to changed circumstances or unexpected roadblocks and can articulate the progress to date and future plans.
• "Developing" - the superintendent's performance demonstrates many of the characteristics associated with effective performance, although a few exceptions and inconsistencies may exist.
• "Ineffective" - the superintendent's behavior does not demonstrate the characteristics associated with effective performance. The superintendent may behave contrary to expectations or may fail to show positive behaviors desired. This rating is relatively rare.
Based on the discussion, the school board completes an overall end-of-year summative evaluation form and provides a summary of its conclusions at its next open school board meeting. The school board chair ensures that a copy of the summative evaluation is placed in the superintendent's personnel file.
26

Tips for Conducting a Fair and Objective Evaluation Meeting
Holding the evaluation meeting requires prior thought and tact. The school board has a responsibility to evaluate the superintendent's performance. Unfortunately, no evaluation process or instrument is completely objective and some subjectivity is to be expected. However, every evaluation process should foster a fair analysis of the superintendent's performance.
Tips for conducting the superintendent's evaluation include:
• Maintain a respectful, professional process
• Focus on standards and goals, not personality
• Identify strengths in performance on which the superintendent can build
• Address poor results with tact and constructive criticism
• Give recommendations for corrective action where needed
• Go beyond conclusion reporting; use a problem-solving focus
• Encourage a professional development plan
• Conclude the evaluation by outlining priority goals for the coming year
27

OVERVIEW OF PART 3
Part 3: Appendices
1. Evidence Examples
2. Goals and Standards Evaluation Forms/Examples
• Sample Form 1 - Establish Goals and Standards
• Sample Form 2 - Mid-Year Formative Evaluation
• Sample Form 3 - School Board's Final End-of-Year Summative Evaluation
• Sample Form 4 - Final Performance Summary Sheet
• Sample Form 5 - Superintendent Self-Evaluation Form (Optional)
28

APPENDICES
A. Evidence Examples
The validity, reliability, and effectiveness of the evaluation instrument chosen will rely upon school board members' use of evidence to rate the superintendent's performance regardless of whether the performance evaluation is a goal or standard. Evidence helps to demonstrate performance of the superintendent and removes guess work and subjectivity from the evaluation. Data sources are those documents, communications, newspaper articles, agendas, etc., that provide evidence of the superintendent's performance.
The data sources that serve as evidence of the superintendent's performance should be selected at the beginning of the evaluation cycle and be mutually agreed on by the school board and superintendent.
Data sources should be limited to only what is needed to inform rating the superintendent's performance for a specific goal or standard. Excessive use of evidence clouds the evaluation process and wastes precious time and resources. The school board and superintendent should also establish when data sources are to be provided, i.e., as they originate, at designated checkpoints, during self-evaluation, etc.
The following list provides a sampling of data sources that may be used as evidence of performance. The list is by no means exhaustive, but it provides an overview of many commonly created and used data sources. Again, the board and superintendent should work together to select the data sources that best demonstrate the superintendent's performance for each goal and/or standard to be assessed.
School District Policies, Plans, and Reports Relevant Goal/Standard Date Submitted
Administrative Calendar
Affirmative Action Plan
Auditor's Report
Community Education Annual Report
Community Survey
Crisis Management Plan
Diversity Training/Awareness Plan
ESSA Accountability Report
Long-Range Facilities Management Plan
Minnesota Report Card
Minnesota Student Survey Results
NAEP Data
Needs Assessment
Q-Comp Plan
School Improvement Plan
Staff Handbook
Strategic Plan
Student Handbook
Wellness Report
World's Best Workforce Report
A-1

School District Employees
Background Check Verification
Contract Negotiations Participation
Grievances (number, reason, status)
Hiring Process Documents
Job Descriptions
Instruction, Curriculum, and Assessment
Instruction-focused Professional Development
Presentations to Staff
Professional Learning Communities
Teacher Use of Student Data
Students and Curriculum
Bullying/Harassment Programs
Celebrations of Student Achievement
Character Education Program
Curriculum and Instruction Audit
Curriculum Team Meeting Agendas
Enrollment Projections
Equity Program Results
Graduation Rates
Open Houses
Parent Classes
Parent-Teacher Conferences
Positive Behavior Supports
Program Evaluation
Registration Materials
Student Achievement Data
School District Finances
Bids and Quotes
Fund Management Policies and Procedures
Grants Applied For/Received
School District Budget
Communications and Community
Civic Group and Stakeholder Presentations
Community Meeting Agendas/Minutes
Community Partnerships
Outreach Programs
Parent Communications
Relationship Building Efforts
School District Communication Plan
School District Earned Media
School District Social Media Plan and Presence
Superintendent Participation in Community
Organizations
Superintendent Professional Memberships
Website Development, Maintenance, and Usage
A-2

School Board and Administration
Administrative Team Meeting Agendas/Minutes
New School Board Member Orientation Program
Policies and Administrative Procedures
Recommendations to the School Board
School Board and Administrative Goals
School Board Meeting Agendas
School Improvement Advisory Committee Minutes
Workshops and Training Programs
B. Evaluation-Related Forms
A school board and superintendent should collaborate to develop evaluation forms.
Below, five sample forms are provided. The content in each sample form illustrates the nature and extent of the content that might be provided. Your school district may choose to adopt one of these options or create its own evaluation forms.
Form 1: Establish Goals and Standards
The goals for the superintendent are set forth, together with the evidence to be provided to establish the superintendent's performance of the goal. The evaluation scale that the Governance Team will use to evaluate the superintendent's performance is included.
Form 2: Mid-Year Formative Evaluation Form
The superintendent's goals and the standards are stated and evidence of progress or growth to date is described. The school board then provides overall comments.
Form 3: School Board's Final End-of-Year Summative Evaluation
The superintendent's goals, which appear on Form 1, are set forth. The school board completes the evaluation scale for each goal and standard and, in addition, states an overall rating for the combined goals and standards. Qualitative guidance is included regarding the goals and standards. The superintendent is provided an opportunity to offer comments.
Form 4: School Board's Summary of its Conclusions
The school board provides a summary statement on each superintendent goal and standard.
Form 5: Superintendent Self-Evaluation Form (Optional)
The superintendent provides evidence of performance of each goal, together with evidence of progress/growth related to each goal. The superintendent also provides evidence of progress/growth on each standard, noting areas of strength and areas needing improvement.
A-3

SAMPLE FORM 1 - ESTABLISH GOALS AND STANDARDS
Goal 1: Provide Evidence of Performance 1: By (month) of 20--, develop and implement a five leadership to (5) year capital improvement plan, identifying general and deferred maximize use of maintenance needs for all facilities and an annual allocation of resources for school district meeting needs.
resources
Evidence of Performance 2: By the fall of 20__, develop a plan by which the school district will meet the fund balance reserve goal of ___ days or ___% of the annual general fund of the school district.
Evidence of Performance 3: Annually prepare and submit a report to the school board concerning expected and unexpected revenue/expenditure changes for all funds for the current fiscal year and for the following three (3)
years.
Goal 2: Provide Evidence of Performance 1: Assess existing communication methods and leadership to identify preferred communication methods and content for internal and strengthen external stakeholders concerning volunteer and partnership opportunities.
school/community
Evidence of Performance 2: Increase by __% the number of parents who communications
"Agree" or "Strongly Agree" that "the school district provides timely and and relationships.
informative communication about the school district" on the school district's climate survey.
Evidence of Performance 3: Conduct a minimum of four school district surveys and/or community meetings on specific school district programs or initiatives.
Standard 1. Governance Team: Element 1.b. Goals and/or Strategic Plan
Please select one of the following: highly effective, effective, developing, ineffective, or not applicable.
Highly Effective (4) Effective (3) Developing (2) Ineffective (1) Not
Applicable
Facilitates Facilitates Goals are defined by Goals are not development of development of implementing developed.
short- and long-term short-term and long- standards and measurable school term school district seeking to maximize district goals and goals and student aligns available recommends achievement resources to financial strategies accomplish goals to meet goals
Evaluation Period: to _____
Superintendent's Signature: _____ Date:
School Board Chair's Signature: Date:
* No more than three standards should be evaluated at one time.
** Additional goals and/or standards/elements may be inserted above.
A-4

SAMPLE FORM 2 - MID-YEAR FORMATIVE EVALUATION FORM*
Goal 1: Provide leadership to obtain and maximize use of the school district's resources.
Evidence of Progress and/or Growth to Date: Action plan with status update on plan, including:
documents in progress or completed, minutes of staff/administrative team meetings on plan development, and specific school board policies and administrative rules/regulations developed or used to implement measurable indicators
Goal 2: Provide leadership to strengthen school/community communications and relationships.
Evidence of Progress and/or Growth to Date: A list was generated of the existing communication methods used with the community, volunteers, and partnership organizations; identifying the preferred modes of communication for each. Action plan outlining a timeline of data and input gathering surveys to be conducted and community meetings has been provided. One survey has been done, data analysis has been initiated.
Standard 1. Governance Team: Element 1.b. Goals and/or Strategic Plan
Evidence of Progress and/or Growth to Date: Strategic planning process facilitator has been selected by the school board. Several planning sessions have been scheduled. The school board has approved new school district mission, vision, and beliefs statements and is developing the short- and long-range school district goals with community and staff input.
Overall Comments:
Goal 1: The superintendent developed a detailed and workable action plan. The superintendent has implemented the action plan and has begun to develop short- and long-term goals for the school district, with input from our staff and administrative team. The school board encourages the superintendent to make the goals measurable, as financial strategies will need to be implemented to meet these goals.
Goal 2: Initially, the school board thought it would review the data analysis of two surveys by this time. The surveys may be too broad given the results are generating an overwhelming amount of data. The community input meeting held this fall gleaned supportive and specific information regarding program input. This goal may be ongoing as the survey process and procedures are fine tuned.
Mid-Year Evaluation Period: to
Superintendent's Signature: Date:
School Board Chair's Signature: ______ Date: _
*Additional goals and/or standards/elements may be inserted above
A-5

SAMPLE FORM 3 - SCHOOL BOARD'S FINAL END-OF-YEAR SUMMATIVE EVALUATION*
Place one check [ ] in each row for each goal and one check [ ] for overall rating.
4 3 2 1
Highly Effective Developing Ineffective
Effective
Goal 1: Provide leadership to obtain and maximize utilization of the school district's resources.
Goal 2: Provide leadership to strengthen school/
community communications and relationships.
Overall Goals Rating:
Standard 1. Governance Team:
Element 1.b. Goals and/or Strategic Plan
Overall Rating Standards Ratings
Overall Rating Goals and Standards (Combined)
A. For the goals and standards, which best illustrates the superintendent's greatest strength and why? Our superintendent believes in school district strategic planning. The superintendent is very organized in his/her efforts to develop short- and long-term goals and to align available resources to that end. The superintendent is visible at community and school events, always cultivating open lines of communication with our stakeholders, and continually enhances positive relationships.
B. For the goals and standards, which presented the superintendent with the greatest challenge and why? The abundance of data generated by the survey given was overwhelming. As we move forward with the school district's new strategic plan, identifying the specific areas that need to be worked on and then inviting community and staff input, both survey and community meeting formats generated is important. The input was invaluable to developing the short-term and long-term goals for our school district and should continue.
C. How might the school board enhance the superintendent's strengths and assist in overcoming challenges? Community meeting involvement by individual school board members may support the superintendent. Using the information that the superintendent gleaned from the community will be important evidence for the alignment of resources as we build next year's school district budget. The expectation of up to four surveys a year needs to be revisited. Equal weight should be given to committee and group meeting input.
D. Superintendent's Comments:
We made good progress on the goals this year. We gleaned an abundance of information from our stakeholders and the community support is overwhelming. I have aligned school district resources to meet the community supported goals in our upcoming year's budget. With school board support, this budget will facilitate the needed changes. The comments above will be the basis of next year's goals.
Evaluation Period: to
Superintendent's Signature: Date:
School Board Chair's Signature: Date:
* Additional goals and/or standards/elements may be inserted above.
A-6

SAMPLE FORM 4 - SCHOOL BOARD'S SUMMARY OF ITS CONCLUSIONS *
Goal 1: Provide leadership to obtain and maximize utilization of the school district's resources.
Summary Statement: The superintendent effectively led our school district through a strategic planning action plan that included the development of short-term and long-term goals. These measurable goals will be the basis of an alignment of resources to accomplish these goals.
Goal 2: Provide leadership to strengthen school/community communications and relationships.
Summary Statement: The superintendent effectively facilitated open communication with our community. The superintendent held small and large group meetings and surveyed stakeholders to get real time data on which to base the short- and long-term goals. This ongoing input is vital to the school district administration and school board as we set school district goals and meet the needs of all of our students.
Standard 1: Governance Team
Element 1.b. Goals and/or Strategic Plan
Summary Statement: The superintendent facilitated the development of the school district's shortterm and long-term goals. The superintendent recommended necessary financial strategies to meet those goals.
Evaluation Period: to
Superintendent's Signature: Date:
School Board Chair's Signature: Date:
*Pursuant to M.S. 13D.05, Subd. 3 (a), the school board may close a meeting to evaluate the performance of an individual who is subject to its authority. At its next open meeting, the school board shall summarize its conclusions regarding the evaluation.
Note: The school board's summary must give enough information so that a reasonable person would know what occurred without disclosing private personnel data. For more information see page 7 or contact
MSBA or MASA.
A-7

SAMPLE FORM 5 - SUPERINTENDENT SELF-EVALUATION FORM (OPTIONAL)
Superintendent Evidence of Performance 1: By (month) of 20--, develop and implement a five (5)
Goal 1: Provide year capital improvement plan identifying general and deferred maintenance leadership to needs for all facilities and an annual allocation of resources for meeting those obtain and needs.
maximize
Evidence of Performance 2: By the fall of 20__, the school district will meet the utilization of the fund balance reserve goal of ___ days or ___% of the annual general fund of the school district's school district.
resources.
Evidence of Performance 3: On an annual basis, prepare and submit a report to the school board concerning expected and unexpected revenue/ expenditure changes for all funds for the current fiscal year and for the following three (3)
years.
Evidence of Progress and/or Growth Goal 1 to Date: This year, I facilitated the school board's strategic planning process. School district staff and community members participated in developing the strategic plan. We are working to align the school district's resources and the strategic plan priorities and to guide school district decision making. We incorporated the school district's capital improvement plan into the strategic plan. I am cognizant of the school board's goal of establishing a
45-day fund balance reserve. I am pleased that we now have set aside an additional five days of fund balance this year and will continue to work toward the established fund balance goal in subsequent years. My annual report includes a review of expected and unexpected revenue and expenditures changes for the current fiscal year and projected scenarios for the next three years
Goal 2: Provide Evidence of Performance 1: Complete an assessment of existing communication leadership to methods and number of types of school district-related volunteer and strengthen partnership opportunities that identifies preferred communication methods and school/community information wanted and needed about volunteer and partnership opportunities communications for both internal and external stakeholders.
and relationships.
Evidence of Performance 2: Increase by __% the number of parents who "Agree"
or "Strongly Agree" with the statement "The school district provides timely and informative communication about the school district" on the school district's climate survey.
Evidence of Performance 3: Conduct a minimum of four school district surveys or community meetings related to specific school district programs or initiatives.
Evidence of Progress and/or Growth Goal 2 to Date: Three surveys were conducted this year. The information from the staff and community was analyzed by the administrative team to determine trends and needs, presented to the staff and the community, and used to establish the strategic plan priorities. The strategic planning process resulted in new school district mission, vision, and belief statements, and measurable short- and long-term goals. The survey information was instrumental in the planning process. We will continue to conduct surveys annually, but we will need to be more specific and mindful in of what we want to know when generating the questions. Parents preferred the online survey format and suggested no more than two surveys per year. Doing this each year will get the parents in the routine of sharing their input and help them understand how important their input is to the school district.
A-8

Standard 1. Governance Team: Element 1.b. Goals and/or Strategic Plan
Believes in and Facilitates the Goals are defined Goals are not facilitates the development of short- by implementing developed development of short- term and long-term goals standards and and long-term for the school district and seeking to measurable school recommends necessary maximize district goals and aligns financial strategies to student available resources with meet those goals achievement the budget to accomplish these goals
Evidence of Progress and/or Growth Standard 1 to Date: Working through the strategic planning process this year has made me a believer in that process. The input from our stakeholders became the basis and impetus of our school board's planning. The strategic plan provides a firm foundation on which to make staff, facility, and resource decisions. We will revisit our strategic plan yearly and will glean ongoing input from our stakeholders to guide our work.
Areas of Strength: As a result of this year's successful strategic planning process, I have become a strong proponent and advocate for the process and its importance in the school board's goal of providing a successful learning experience for all students. The strategic plan has focused us all on what is truly important. With this insight, we can use the school district resources appropriately and have made substantial progress toward the school board's fund balance goal.
Areas Needing Improvement/Strategies for Improvement: I will take the advice of our stakeholders and streamline our online survey techniques. I will facilitate the school board's annual review and revision of the school district's strategic plan. This is a priority that is essential to support the school board's work.
Evaluation Period: to
* Recommend no more than three standards be evaluated at one time.
** Additional goals and/or standards/elements may be inserted above.
*** MSBA and MASA do not recommend using 360-degree feedback tools for an evaluation because the school board directs the superintendent and should not delegate this responsibility to others. If 360-
degree feedback is initiated, it should be used by the superintendent for growth purposes. The decision whether to share the results should be controlled by the superintendent.
A-9

A-10

A-10 |