To: School Board Members and Superintendent
From: Ukee Dozier, Executive Director of Finance
Date: June 20, 2023
Re: Consent Agenda: May 2023 Month End Financial Report
Revenue Analysis:
The current analysis reflects the district's revenue activity for the month listed above. State and property tax receivables are close in line with prior YTD percentages. This is consistent with the payment schedules of the State and Hennepin County. Federal receivables surrounding Title,
ESSER, and Sped funds are trending below prior YTD percentages due to our internal draw schedules of Federal funds and accumulated reimbursable expenditures. Local revenues trends are consistent with previous month activity. The areas with the most significant positive variance are donations, interest earnings, patron fees, and student activities/athletics admissions revenue sources. Please note, interest earnings are generally coded to general fund, but the totals may vary at year end after reallocation to other funds for their proportionate share of investment activity.
Overall, the current month of activity reflects a positive trend projection in overall revenue.
Expense Analysis:
The current analysis reflects the district's expense activity for the month listed above. Salaries and wages appear to be projecting less than budget but are on track with projections due to there being three payroll periods in the month of June. They are also trending closely as intended with prior YTD percentages, while employee benefits are trending slightly higher due to workers compensation premium increase from prior YTD. This is reflected in both Object Series "Employee
Benefits" and Program Series "Other Financing Uses". Purchased Services are continuing to trend above prior YTD due to pandemic driven non spending in prior years, specifically in transportation.
Supplies and Equipment are both trending under prior YTD but are anticipated to fall suit with projections while Other Expenditures are right on pace with spending expectations.
Additional Note:
The district's financial month end activities are on a cash basis. Because of this, fund balances may have significant fluctuations throughout the year due to the timing of disbursements and receivables. At year-end, financial records are converted to an accrual basis according to the
Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB) and will incorporate all activity intended for the given fiscal year to reflect true fund balances.