Robbinsdale Area Schools
Independent School District 281
Approved: January 26, 2015
Revised: July 25, 2023
Approved: August 7, 2023
Revised and Approved: October 2024
604.1 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE - INSTRUCTIONAL CURRICULUM
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this administrative procedure is to provide for the development of course offerings for students.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT
A. Instruction must be provided in at least the following subject areas:
1. basic communication skills including reading and writing, literature, and fine arts;
2. mathematics and science;
3. social studies, including history, geography, economics, government, and citizenship;
4. health and physical education;
[Note: Health curriculum may include child sexual abuse prevention in consultation with other federal, state, or local agencies and community-based organizations to identify research-based tools, curricula, and programs.]
5. the arts;
6. career and technical education; and;
7. world languages.
[Note: The school district must use the current world languages standards developed by the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages.
World languages programs should be developed and implemented to acknowledge and reinforce the language proficiency and cultural awareness that non-English language speakers already possess and encourage students'
proficiency in multiple world languages. Programs also must encompass indigenous American Indian languages and cultures, among other world languages and cultures. School districts may award Minnesota World Language
Proficiency Certificates consistent with Minnesota Statutes section 120B.022, subdivision 1.]

B. The basic instructional program shall include all courses required for each grade level by the Minnesota Department of Education and courses required in all elective subject areas.
The instructional approach will be nonsexist and multicultural.
C. Public elementary and middle schools must offer and require at least two, of the following four art areas: dance, music, theater, and visual arts. High schools shall offer at least three, and require at least one, of the following five art areas: media arts, dance, music, theater, and visual arts.
D. The school district must establish and regularly review its own standards for career and technical education (CTE) programs. Standards must align with CTE frameworks developed by the Department of Education, standards developed by national CTE
organizations, or recognized industry standards.
E. The school district, at its discretion, may offer additional courses in the instructional program at any grade level.
F. Each instructional program shall be planned for optimal benefit taking into consideration the financial condition of the school district and other relevant factors. Each program plan should contain goals and objectives, materials, minimum student competency levels, and methods for student evaluation.
G. The superintendent or designee shall have discretionary authority to develop guidelines and directives to implement school board administrative procedures relating to instructional curriculum.
H. The school district may not discriminate against or discipline a teacher or principal on the basis of incorporating into curriculum contributions of persons in a federally protected class or state protected class when the included contribution is in alignment with standards and benchmarks adopted under Minnesota Statutes, sections 120B.021 and 120B.023.
III. REQUIRED ACADEMIC STANDARDS
A. The following subject areas are required for statewide accountability:
1. language arts;
2. mathematics, encompassing algebra II, integrated mathematics III, or an equivalent in high school, and to be prepared for the three credits of mathematics in grades 9
through 12, the grade 8 standards include the completion of algebra;
3. science, including earth and space science, life science, and the physical sciences, including chemistry and physics;
4. social studies, including history, geography, economics, and government and citizenship that includes civics;
5. physical education;

6. health, for which locally developed academic standards apply; and;
7. the arts.
B. Elementary and middle schools must offer at least three and require at least two of the following five arts areas: dance, media arts, music, theater, and visual arts. High schools must offer at least three and require at least one of the following five arts areas: media arts, dance, music, theater, and visual arts.
[NOTE: Line 6. regarding locally developed health, the academic standard continues to be in effect. The 2024 Minnesota legislature enacted a change in health standards from local to state determination, as noted in Model Policy 613. It will likely take eighteen months or more for a state health standard to be finalized. Until that time, school districts should maintain their locally developed health academic standards.
IV. PARENTAL CURRICULUM REVIEW
The school district shall have a procedure for a parent, guardian, or an adult student, 18 years of age or older, to review the content of the instructional materials to be provided to a minor child or to an adult student and, if the parent, guardian, or adult student objects to the content, to make reasonable arrangements with school personnel for alternative instruction. Alternative instruction may be provided by the parent, guardian, or adult student if the alternative instruction, if any, offered by the school board does not meet the concerns of the parent, guardian, or adult student.
The school board is not required to pay for the costs of alternative instruction provided by a parent, guardian, or adult student. School personnel may not impose an academic or other penalty upon a student merely for arranging alternative instruction under this section. School personnel may evaluate and assess the quality of the student's work.
V. CPR AND AED INSTRUCTION
The school district will provide one time cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and automatic external defibrillator (AED) instruction as part of its grade 7 to 12 curriculum.
A. In the school district's discretion, training and instruction may result in CPR certification.
B. CPR and AED instruction must include CPR and AED training that have been developed:
1. by the American Heart Association or the American Red Cross and incorporate psychomotor skills to support the instruction; or
2. using nationally recognized, evidence-based guidelines for CPR and incorporate psychomotor skills to support the instruction. "Psychomotor skills" means hands-on practice to support cognitive learning; it does not mean cognitive-only instruction and training.
C. The school district may use community members such as emergency medical technicians, paramedics, police officers, firefighters, and representatives of the Minnesota Resuscitation
Consortium, the American Heart Association, or the American Red Cross, among others, to

provide instruction and training.
D. A school administrator may waive this curriculum requirement for a high school transfer student regardless of whether or not the student previously received instruction under this section, an enrolled student absent on the day the instruction occurred under this section, or an eligible student who has a disability.
[Note: If a school district requests resources, the Minnesota Resuscitation Consortium must provide them to the school district for instruction and training provided to students under this section.]
VI. COLLEGE AND CAREER PLANNING
A. The school district shall assist all students by no later than grade 9 to explore their college and career interests and aspirations and develop a plan for a smooth and successful transition to postsecondary education or employment. All students' plans must be designed to:
1. provide a comprehensive academic plan for completing a college and career-ready curriculum premised on meeting state and local academic standards and developing st
21 century skills such as team work, collaboration, and good work habits;
2. emphasize academic rigor and high expectations; and inform the student, and the student's parent or guardian if the student is a minor, of the student's achievement level score on the Minnesota Comprehensive Assessments that are administered during high school;
3. help students identify interests, aptitudes, aspirations, and personal learning styles that may affect their postsecondary education and employment choices;
4. set appropriate career and college-ready goals with timelines that identify effective means for achieving those goals;
5. help students gain access to postsecondary education and career options;
6. integrate strong academic content into career-focused courses and integrate relevant career-focused courses applied and experiential learning opportunities into strong academic content;
7. help identify and gain access to appropriate counseling and other supports and assistance that enable students to complete required coursework, prepare for postsecondary education and careers, and obtain information about postsecondary education costs and eligibility for financial aid and scholarship;
8. help identify collaborative partnerships of kindergarten through grade 12 schools, postsecondary institutions, economic development agencies, and employers that support students' transition to postsecondary education and employment and provide students with experiential learning opportunities; and;

9. be reviewed and revised at least annually by the student, the student's parent or guardian, and the school district to ensure that the student's course-taking schedule keeps the student on track for graduation, making adequate progress to meet state and local high school graduation requirements and with a reasonable chance to succeed with employment or postsecondary education without the need to first complete remedial course work.
B. The school district may develop grade-level curricula or provide instruction that introduces students to various careers, but must not require any curriculum, instruction, or employment-related activity that obligates an elementary or secondary student to involuntarily select a career, career interest, employment goals, or related job training.
C. Educators must possess the knowledge and skills to effectively teach all English learners in their classrooms. School districts must provide appropriate curriculum, targeted materials, professional development opportunities for educators, and sufficient resources to enable
English learners to become career and college -ready.
D. When assisting students in developing a plan for a smooth and successful transition to postsecondary education and employment, school districts must recognize the unique possibilities of each student and ensure that the contents of each student's plan reflect the student's unique talents, skills, and abilities as the student grows, develops, and learns.
E. If a student with a disability has an Individualized Education Program (IEP) or standardized written plan that meets the plan components herein, the IEP satisfies the requirement, and no additional transition plan is needed.
F. Students who do not meet or exceed the Minnesota Academic Standards, as measured by the Minnesota Comprehensive Assessments that are administered during high school, shall be informed that admission to a public school is free and available to any resident under 21
years of age or who meets the requirements of the compulsory attendance law. A student's plan under this provision shall continue while a student is enrolled.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 120A.22 (Compulsory Instruction)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.021 (Required Academic Standards)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.022 (Elective Standards)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.023 (Benchmarks)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.101 (Curriculum)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.125 (Planning for Students' Successful Transition to
Postsecondary Education and Employment; Personal Learning Plans)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.20 (Parental Curriculum Review
Minn. Stat. § 120B.021 (Required Academic Standards)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.022 (Elective Standards)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.023 (Benchmarks Implement, Supplement Statewide Academic
Standards)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.234 (Child Sexual Abuse Prevention Education)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.236 (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and Automatic External
Defibrillator Instruction)

Cross References: RAS Policy 603 (Curriculum Development)
RAS Policy 605 (Alternative Programs)
RAS Policy 102.1 (Equity)