Extract of Minutes of Meeting of the
School Board of
Independent School District No. 281
(Robbinsdale Area Schools)
Hennepin County, Minnesota
Pursuant to due call and notice thereof, a regular meeting of the School Board of Independent

School District No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools), Hennepin County, Minnesota, was duly held at the

Education Service Center in the City of New Hope, Minnesota, on Monday, June 17, 2024, commencing at 7:00 p.m.
The following directors were present:

bivectors : Baséettl, Bowman, Brooks, Evans- Becker, HDncs, hong, and Vento

and the following were absent!) nNOnWe.

KORO ROK AK

Director Evane-PBeclcer- introduced the following resolution 1 and moved its wivec readi ng;

adoption:

RB500-16-949819.v6

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE RENEWAL OF AN
EXISTING CAPITAL PROJECTS LEVY AND CALLING A
SPECIAL ELECTION THEREON; AUTHORIZING THE
PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF A PROPOSAL TO THE
COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION FOR REVIEW AND
COMMENT; AND TAKING OTHER ACTIONS WITH RESPECT
THERETO

BE IT RESOLVED by the School Board (the "Board") of Independent School District No. 281
(Robbinsdale Area Schools), Hennepin County, Minnesota (the "School District") as follows:

It is hereby found, determined, and declared as follows:

1. The Board has investigated the facts and does hereby find, determine, and declare that it is necessary and expedient for the School District to renew its existing capital projects levy authorization expiring after taxes payable in 2024, in the maximum amount of 4.207% times the net tax capacity of the school district. The money raised by this authorization will continue to provide funds to increase technology access for students and staff through the acquisition, installation, replacement, support, and maintenance of software, applications, digital curriculum and resources, one to one devices, improved technology, technology systems, networks, and infrastructure, and will also provide funds for capital improvements for safety and security, including cameras, and safety-related building modifications
(collectively, the "Projects"). The proposed tax rate is not being increased from the previous year's rate.
The proposed renewal of the expiring capital projects levy authorization will raise approximately
$6,995,074 for taxes payable in 2025, the first year it is to be levied, and would be authorized for ten (10)
years. The estimated total cost of the Projects to be funded over that time period is approximately
$69,950,740.

2. The Board hereby authorizes and directs members of the administration of the School
District and consultants to prepare a proposal with respect to the Projects for submission on behalf of the
Board to the Commissioner of Education (the "Commissioner'") of the State of Minnesota (the "State")
for the Commissioner's review and comment, and to take such other actions as necessary to comply with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Section 123B.71, as amended.

3. The question on renewing the School District's existing capital projects levy authorization will be presented to the qualified electors of the School District as School District Ballot
Question 1, at a special election which is hereby called and directed to be held on Tuesday,
November 5, 2024, in conjunction with the statewide general election.

4. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Section 205A.11, the precincts and polling places for this special election are those precincts or part of precincts located within the boundaries of the school district which are designated for statewide general elections. The voting hours at those polling places shall be the hours between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.

5. The School District's Clerk (the "Clerk") is hereby authorized and directed to perform the following duties with respect to providing notice of the special election:

(a) provide written notice of the special election to the Auditor/Treasurer of

Hennepin County, Minnesota at least eighty-four (84) days before the date of the special election;

RBS500-16-949819.v6

(b) provide written notice of the special election to the Commissioner of Education at least eighty-four (84) days before the date of the special election;

(c) mail the notice of special election by first class mail to every property taxpayer in the School District, at least fifteen (15) days but no more than thirty (30) days prior to the date of the special election;

(d) publish the notice of special election in the official newspaper of the School
District once each week for at least two (2) consecutive weeks, with the last publication being at least one (1) week prior to the date of the special election; and

(e) post the notice of special election at the administrative offices of the School
District, for public inspection, at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the special election.

The notice of special election shall be prepared in substantially the form attached as
EXHIBIT A.

6. The Clerk is authorized and directed to acquire and distribute such election materials and to take such other actions as may be necessary for the proper conduct of this special election, and generally to cooperate with election authorities conducting other elections on that date. The Clerk and members of the administration are authorized and directed to take such actions as may be necessary to coordinate this election with those other elections, including entering into agreements with appropriate municipal and county officials regarding preparation and distribution of ballots or ballot cards, election administration, and cost sharing.

7. The Clerk is further authorized and directed to cause a printed ballot for the question to be prepared in the manner provided in the rules of the Secretary of the State, for use at the special election, to cause a sample ballot to be posted in the administrative offices of the School District, for public inspection, at least four (4) days before the date of the special election and to cause a sample ballot to be posted at each polling place on the date of the special election. The Clerk is further authorized and directed to cooperate with the proper election officials to cause ballots or ballot cards to be prepared for use at said election. The ballot shall be in substantially the form attached as EXHIBIT B.

8. If the School District will be contracting to print the ballots for this special election, the
Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to prepare instructions to the printer for layout of the ballot.
Before a contract in excess of $1,000 is awarded for printing ballots, the printer shall furnish, in accordance with Minnesota Statutes, Section 204D.04, a sufficient bond, letter of credit or certified check acceptable to the Clerk, conditioned on printing the ballots in conformity with the Minnesota election law and the instructions delivered. The Clerk shall set the amount of the bond, letter of credit or certified check in an amount equal to the value of the purchase.

9. The individuals designated as judges for the state general election shall act as election judges for this special election at the various polling places and shall conduct said election in the manner prescribed by law. The election judges shall act as clerks of election, count the ballots cast, and submit the results to the school board for canvass in the manner provided for other school district elections.

10. The special election shall be held and the returns made and canvassed in the manner

prescribed by law, and the Board shall meet on a date between three (3) and ten (10) days after the election for the purpose of canvassing the results thereof.

RBS500-16-949819.v6

The motion for the adoption of the foregoing resolution was duly seconded by Director

Homes , and upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof:

Divectore: Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans- Becker,
Holmes, Long, ana Vento .
and the following voted against the same: NOVIE.

whereupon the resolution was declared duly passed and adopted.

RBS500-16-949819.v6

EXHIBIT A

NOTICE OF SPECIAL ELECTION

INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 281
(ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS)
HENNEPIN COUNTY, MINNESOTA

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a special election has been called and will be held in and for
Independent School District No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools), Hennepin County, Minnesota, in conjunction with the statewide general election on November 5, 2024, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
8:00 p.m. to vote on the following question:

SCHOOL DISTRICT BALLOT QUESTION 1
APPROVAL OF RENEWED CAPITAL PROJECT LEVY AUTHORIZATION

The School Board of Independent School District No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools) has proposed the renewal of an existing capital project levy authorization expiring after taxes payable in 2024, in the maximum amount of 4.207% times the net tax capacity of the school district. The money raised by this authorization will continue to provide funds to increase technology access for students and staff through the acquisition, installation, replacement, support, and maintenance of software, applications, digital curriculum and resources, one to one devices, improved technology, technology systems, networks, and infrastructure, and will also provide funds for capital improvements for safety and security, including cameras, and safety-related building modifications. The proposed tax rate is not being increased from the previous year's rate. The proposed renewal of the expiring capital project levy authorization will raise approximately $6,995,074 for taxes payable in 2025, the first year it is to be levied, and would be authorized for ten (10) years. The estimated total cost of the projects to be funded over that time period is approximately $69,950,740. The projects to be funded [have] [have not] received a positive review and comment from the Commissioner of Education.

Shall the renewal of the expiring capital project levy authorization proposed by the school board of
Independent School District No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools) be approved?

BY VOTING "YES" ON THIS BALLOT QUESTION, YOU ARE VOTING TO RENEW AN
EXISTING CAPITAL PROJECTS REFERENDUM THAT IS SCHEDULED TO EXPIRE.

The polling places for this special election and the precincts served by those polling places are those which are designated for the statewide general election.

Any eligible voter residing in the school district may vote at said election at the polling place designated above for the precinct in which he or she resides. The polls for said election will be open between 7:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on the date of said election.

A voter must be registered to vote to be eligible to vote in this election. An unregistered individual may register to vote at the polling places on election day.

Dated: , 2024

A-1
RB500-16-9498 19.v6

BY ORDER OF THE SCHOOL BOARD

/s/ hie Zen Lith

Clerk
Independent School District No. 281

(Robbinsdale Area Schools), Hennepin County,
Minnesota

RB500-16-949819.v6

EXHIBIT B
SCHOOL DISTRICT QUESTION BALLOT
INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 281
(ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS)
HENNEPIN COUNTY, MINNESOTA

SPECIAL ELECTION
November 5, 2024

To vote for a question, fill in the oval next to the word "YES" for that question.
To vote against a question, fill in the oval next to the word "NO" for that question.

SCHOOL DISTRICT BALLOT QUESTION 1
APPROVAL OF RENEWED CAPITAL PROJECT LEVY AUTHORIZATION

The School Board of Independent School District No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools) has proposed the renewal of an existing capital project levy authorization expiring after taxes payable in 2024, in the maximum amount of 4.207% times the net tax capacity of the school district. The money raised by this authorization will continue to provide funds to increase technology access for students and staff through the acquisition, installation, replacement, support, and maintenance of software, applications, digital curriculum and resources, one to one devices, improved technology, technology systems, networks, and infrastructure, and will also provide funds for capital improvements for safety and security, including cameras, and safety-related building modifications. The proposed tax rate is not being increased from the previous year's rate. The proposed renewal of the expiring capital project levy authorization will raise approximately $6,995,074 for taxes payable in 2025, the first year it is to be levied, and would be authorized for ten (10) years. The estimated total cost of the projects to be funded over that time period is approximately $69,950,740. The projects to be funded [have] [have not] received a positive review and comment from the Commissioner of Education.

Shall the renewal of the expiring capital project levy authorization proposed by the school board of
Independent School District No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools) be approved?

Cc) YES
@D v0

BY VOTING "YES" ON THIS BALLOT QUESTION, YOU ARE VOTING TO RENEW AN
EXISTING CAPITAL PROJECTS REFERENDUM THAT IS SCHEDULED TO EXPIRE.

B-1
RB500-16-949819.v6

STATE OF MINNESOTA )
) SS
COUNTY OF HENNEPIN )

I, the undersigned, being the duly qualified and acting Clerk of Independent School District
No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools), Hennepin County, Minnesota (the "School District"), hereby certify that the attached and foregoing is a full, true, and correct transcript of the minutes of a meeting of the
School Board of said School District duly called and held on the date therein indicated, so far as such minutes relate to the calling of a referendum on the renewal of the School District's capital project levy, and that the resolution included therein is a full, true, and correct copy of the original thereof.

WITNESS MY HAND officially as such clerk this / 7 day of June, 2024.

Clerk

Independent School District No. 281
(Robbinsdale Area Schools), Hennepin County,
Minnesota

RB500-16-949819.v6