Robbinsdale Area Schools
Independent School District 281
Adopted: September 2024
513.1 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE - STUDENT PROMOTION, ACCELERATION,
RETENTION AND PROGRAM DESIGN
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this procedure is to provide guidance to professional staff, families and students regarding student grade placement, promotion, acceleration, retention and program design.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
The school board expects all students to achieve at an acceptable level of proficiency.
Parent/ Guardian assistance, tutorial and remedial programs, counseling and other appropriate services shall be coordinated and utilized to the greatest extent possible to help students succeed in school.
A. Promotion
Students who achieve at levels deemed acceptable by local and state standards shall be promoted to the next grade level at the completion of each school year.
B. Retention
Retention of a student may be considered in rare cases when principals, district staff and parents feel it is in the best interest of the student. Physical development, age, maturity, and social-emotional factors shall be considered as well as scholastic achievement. The superintendent's decision shall be final.
C. Program Design
1. The superintendent or designee, with participation of professional staff and parents, shall develop and implement programs to challenge students that are consistent with the needs of students at every level. A procedure for screening and identifying students for program assignment shall be developed in coordination with such programs. All programs will be aligned with creating comprehensive achievement and civic readiness.
2. The school district may identify students, locally develop programs and services addressing instructional and affective needs, provide staff development, and evaluate programs to provide gifted and talented students with challenging and appropriate educational programs and services.
3. The school district must adopt guidelines for assessing and identifying students for participation in gifted and talented programs and services consistent with
Minnesota Statutes, section 120B.11 who would benefit from additional enrichment

and talent development services.
a. multiple objective criteria; and b. assessments and procedures that are valid and reliable, fair, and based on current theory and research. Assessments and procedures should be sensitive to under-represented groups, including, but not limited to, low-income, minority, twice-exceptional, and English learners.
4. The school district must adopt procedures for the academic acceleration of students.
These procedures will include how the school district will:
a. assess a student's readiness and motivation for acceleration; b. match the level, complexity, and pace of the curriculum to a student to achieve the best type of academic acceleration for that student.
5. The school district must adopt procedures consistent with Minnesota Statutes, section 124D.02 for early admission to kindergarten or first grade of gifted and talented learners consistent with Minnesota Statutes, section 120B.11, subdivision
2, clause (2) The procedures must be sensitive to under-represented groups.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 120B.15 (Gifted and Talented Program)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.143, Subd. 1 (Superintendents)
Cross References: RAS 613 AP (Graduation Requirements)
RAS 618 AP (Assessment of Student Achievement 620 AP (Credit for Learning)
RAS Policy 613 (Graduation Requirements)
RAS Policy 614 (School District Testing Plan and Procedure) MSBA/MASA
Model RAS Policy RAS 615 (Testing Accommodations, Modifications, and
Exemptions for IEPs, Section 504 Plans, and LEP Students)
RAS Policy 617 (School District Ensurance of Preparatory and High School
Standards)
RAS Policy 618 (Assessment of Student Achievement)
RAS Policy 620 (Credit for Learning)
RAS 102.1 Equity Policy