2026 Legislative Platform
Legislative Action Coalition lac.rdale.org
EXCELLENCE IS OUR STANDARD
Robbinsdale Area Schools is committed to ensuring every student develops their unique potential and graduates career and college ready. To support academic achievement and create a world-class workforce, we urge the
Governor and Legislators to address the following critical issues:
Enhance Student Centered Learning
State policymakers should expand student-centered learning opportunities to allow school districts to create meaningful and personalized experiences that prepare students for future success. Specifically, the Governor and Legislature should:
● Broaden the definition of hours of instruction to allow students to earn credit for learning wherever it occurs;
● Create a legislative working group to study existing barriers to student-centered learning and craft recommendations for improvement;
● Replace the high school MCA exams with a nationally recognized college entrance exam; and
● Direct the Minnesota Department of Education to appoint a working group to build on the Future Assessment
Design Working Group recommendations from 2017 and leverage existing state expertise, including researchers, practitioners, and stakeholders, to develop an assessment system that better supports student-centered learning.
Modernize Long-Term Facilities Maintenance Revenue to Address Aging Infrastructure
Support statutory changes expanding the allowable uses of Long-Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) revenue to include facility modernization for buildings over 25 years old with more than $5 million in documented maintenance needs. Allow districts to pursue upgrades that improve safety, learning environments, energy efficiency, and technology capacity (not solely "like-for-like" replacements) so that older schools can meet modern educational standards.
Intended Impact on Districts & Taxpayers:
● Helps districts address critical facility needs without resorting to large additional levies or bond referenda.
● Extends the life of existing buildings through modernization, reducing long-term capital costs.
● Provides safer, healthier, more effective learning spaces without increasing the burden on local taxpayers.
● Ensures more equitable learning environments across older and newer schools.
Expand Safe Schools Revenue and Modernize Its Uses
Increase the Safe Schools Levy and state aid and expand allowable uses to include cybersecurity infrastructure, modern communication systems, mental health supports, school climate initiatives, and threat-assessment resources.
Intended Impact on Districts & Taxpayers:
● Allows schools to meet growing safety and mental health
DRAFT
needs without shifting dollars away from classrooms.
● Reduces the risk and financial consequences of cyberattacks, data breaches, and communication failures.
● Strengthens crisis response and prevention systems, improving safety for students and staff.
● Minimizes future costs to taxpayers by addressing issues proactively rather than reactively.

Institute Tax Equalization
Fund all districts equitably, considering the difference between commercial property-rich communities and residential communities. Operating referendums play a crucial role in school funding. Residents of districts with lower commercial property wealth pay between $200 to $500 more in taxes than those who reside in districts rich with commercial property. For example, taxes on a home valued at $322,600 cost Rdale homeowners $348
more than what the commercial property-rich Hopkins district homeowners pay.
Oppose Unfunded Mandates and Ensure Adequate Implementation Resources
Oppose any new state mandates related to curriculum, staffing, technology systems, or operations unless the state provides full and sustainable funding for implementation.
Intended Impact on Districts & Taxpayers:
● Protects local taxpayers from covering the cost of state requirements that do not come with sufficient resources.
● Preserves school district budgets so dollars remain focused on teaching, learning, and student support.
● Prevents erosion of programs and services that districts would otherwise need to cut to absorb unfunded mandates.
● Ensures more predictable financial planning for districts and communities.
DRAFT
Questions or additional information contact anthony_williams@rdale.org or 763-504-8013, lac.rdale.org