RESOLUTION APPROVING INTERMEDIATE DISTRICT 287'S LONG-
TERM FACILITY MAINTENANCE PROGRAM BUDGET AND
AUTHORIZING THE ALLOCATION TO THE MEMBER DISTRICTS

Pursuant to due call and notice thereof, a School Board meeting of Intermediate School
District No. 287, State of Minnesota, was held on April 9, 2026 at 6:30 p.m., for the purpose in part, of approving the District's Fiscal Year (FY) 28 Long-Term Facility Maintenance budget and authorizing the allocation of a proportionate share of Intermediate School
District's long-term facility maintenance projects and related debt service payments to each member district for inclusion in each member district's application for long-term facility maintenance.

Kim Ross introduced the following resolution and moved its adoption:

BE IT RESOLVED by the School Board of Intermediate District 287, State of
Minnesota as follows:

1. The School Board of Intermediate District 287 hereby approves a long-term facility maintenance program budget for its facilities for the 2027-28 school year in an amount not to exceed $1,652,875, of which $871,255 is for pay as you go projects and $781,620 is for debt service payments on the 2017B Facilities Maintenance
Bond and the 2022A Facilities Maintenance Bond. The various components of this program budget are attached as Exhibit A hereto and are incorporated herein by reference and District administration is directed to apply to the Commissioner of the Department of Education for approval.

2. Minnesota Statutes, Section 123B.53, Subdivision 1, as amended, provides that if an intermediate district's long-term facility maintenance budget is approved by the school boards of each of the intermediate's member districts, each member district may include its proportionate share of the costs of the intermediate program in its long-term facility maintenance revenue application.

By The proportionate share of the costs of the intermediate school district's long-term facility maintenance program for each member school district to be included in its application shall be determined by multiplying the total cost of the intermediate school district long-term facility maintenance program times a three-year weighted average adjusted pupil units formula. For school year 2027-28 (fiscal year 28), the long-term facility maintenance costs shall be funded through annual levy. The allocation of this proportionate share in the district's long-term facility maintenance revenue application for FY 28 is hereby approved, subject to approval by the
Commissioner of Education. Upon receipt of the proportionate share of long-term facility maintenance revenue attributable to the intermediate school district program, the member district shall promptly pay to the intermediate school district the applicable aid or levy proceeds.

4. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 123B.595, subdivision 3, the intermediate district issued $5,065,000 Facilities Maintenance Bonds, Series 2017B. Such bonds are payable from long-term maintenance revenue transferred by each member district. This district hereby covenants to adopt in each fiscal year during the term of such bonds, a resolution authorizing the inclusion in the application for long-term facilities maintenance revenue the District's proportionate share for such fiscal year of debt service on such bonds.

5. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 123B.595, subdivision 3, the intermediate district issued $4,750,000 Facilities Maintenance Bonds, Series 2022A. Such bonds are payable from long-term maintenance revenue transferred by each member district. This district hereby covenants to adopt in each fiscal year during the term of such bonds, a resolution authorizing the inclusion in the application for long-term facilities maintenance revenue the District's proportionate share for such fiscal year of debt service on such bonds

The motion for the adoption of the foregoing resolution was duly seconded by Member
Dan Ginestra and upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof:

Anderson, Birdman, Casey, Ginestra, Liss, Locke, Long, Ross, and Zeck the following

voted against the same: none.

STATE OF MINNESOTA
COUNTY OF HENNEPIN

I, the undersigned, being the duly qualified and acting Clerk of Intermediate
School District No. 287, State of Minnesota, hereby certify that I have carefully compared the attached and foregoing extract of minutes of a meeting of
Intermediate School District No. 287 held on the date therein indicated, with the original of said minutes on file in my office, and the same is a full, true and complete transcript insofar as the same relates to the approval of Intermediate
School District 287's long-term facility maintenance program budget and authorizing the allocation of a proportionate share of Intermediate School District's long-term facility maintenance projects and related debt service payments to each member district for inclusion in each member district's application for long-term facility maintenance.

WITNESS MY HAND officially as Clerk this 9th day of April 2026.

Sze

Cet"

Intermediate School District 287