Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Orig. 2015
Rev. 2023
Approved 6/1/2015
Reviewed, Revised: February 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
427 POLICY - WORKLOAD LIMITS FOR CERTAIN SPECIAL EDUCATION
TEACHERS
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to establish general parameters for determining the workload limits of special education staff who provide services to children with disabilities receiving direct special education services 60 percent or less of the instructional day. Workload limits for staff who provide direct special education services for more than 61 percent of the school day in setting III
or IV are determined and set by the Minnesota Department of Education, chapter 3525 policy
3525.2340 Caseloads.
II. DEFINITIONS
A. Special Education Staff; Special Education Teacher
"Special education staff" and "special education teacher" both mean a teacher employed by the school district who is licensed under the rules of the Minnesota Board of Teaching
Professional Educator Licensing and Standards Board to instruct children with specific disabling conditions.
B. Direct Services
"Direct services" means special education services provided by a special education teacher or a related service professional when the services are related to instruction, including cooperative teaching.
C. Indirect Services
"Indirect services" means special education services provided by a special education teacher or a related service professional which include ongoing progress reviews; cooperative planning; consultation; demonstration teaching; modification and adaptation of the environment, curriculum, materials, or equipment; and direct contact with children with disabilities to monitor and observe. Indirect services may be provided by a teacher or related services professional to another regular education, special education teacher, related services professional, paraprofessional, support staff, parents, and public and nonpublic agencies to the extent that the services are written in the pupil's IEP and IFSP.
D. Workload

"Workload" means a special education teacher's total number of minutes required for all due process responsibilities, including direct and indirect services, evaluation and reevaluation time, management of individualized education programs (IEPs), travel time, parental contact, and other services required in the IEPs.
III. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. Workload limits for special education teachers shall be determined by the appropriate special education administrator, in consultation with the building principal and the superintendent.
B. In determining workload limits for special education staff, the school district shall take into consideration the following factors: student contact minutes, evaluation and reevaluation time, indirect services, management of IEPs, travel time, and other services required in the
IEPs of eligible students.
IV. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT UNAFFECTED
This policy shall not be construed as a reopening of negotiations between the school district and the special education teachers' exclusive representative, nor shall it be construed to alter or limit in any way the managerial rights or other authority of the school district set forth in the Public
Employers Labor Relations Act or in the collective bargaining agreement between the school district and the special education teachers' exclusive representative.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 179A.07, Subd. 1 (Inherent Managerial Policy)
Minn. Rule 3525.0210, Subps. 14, 27, 44, and 49 (Definitions) of "Direct
Services," "Indirect Services," "Teacher," and "Workload")
Minn. Rule 3525.2340, Subp. 4.B. (Case Loads for School-Age Educational
Service Alternatives)
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 508 (Extended School Year for Certain Students with
Individualized Education Programs)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 608 (Instructional Services - Special Education
RAS Policy 102.1 Equity