SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICER AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN
INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 281 AND THE CITY OF GOLDEN
VALLEY
This SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICER AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made this ____
day of ____________, 2023 by and between INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.
281, ROBBINSDALE PUBLIC SCHOOLS, a Minnesota school district (the "District")
and the CITY OF GOLDEN VALLEY, a Minnesota municipal corporation (the "City").
The District and the City are collectively referred to herein as the "Parties," and individually as a "Party."
Background
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to implement a public safety program at Sandburg Middle
School and Robbinsdale Academy - Highview (the "Program") by engaging the services of a school resource officer (the "Officer") for the Golden Valley Police Department;
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to maintain a cooperative and coordinated approach to deterring and addressing criminal activity on school property and at District-sponsored events and activities;
WHEREAS, Minnesota Statutes, section 126C.44 authorizes the District to contract with the City to have peace officers provide school resource services; and
WHEREAS, Minnesota Statutes, section 126C.44 further authorizes the District to levy for an appropriate portion of the costs the City incurs in paying wages, providing benefits, and providing transportation for peace officers who are assigned to perform school resource officer duties in the District;
NOW, THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION OF the mutual promises contained in this
Agreement and other valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which is acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:
Terms
1. MISSON, PURPOSE, AND DESIRED OUTCOMES.
a. The Parties shall work collaboratively to provide public safety services that support the schools' mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.
b. The purpose of the Program is to promote a positive school climate and relationship building, especially between teachers and students and their families.
The Program also aims to prevent disciplinary exclusions and disproportionality in school discipline.
1

c. The Parties shall work together to ensure the Program achieves the following desired outcomes (collectively, the "Desired Outcomes"):
i. Substantially reduce the number of youth arrested in the Program and referred to the justice system; ii. Improve school attendance and success by reducing the use of exclusionary discipline practices; iii. Eliminate racial and ethnic disparities in school-based arrests and exclusionary school discipline practices; iv. Provide students with access to services to address underlying needs and promote long-term well-being; v. Engage in restorative practices and approaches before relying on punitive interventions whenever feasible; vi. Create wellness for community members by providing trauma informed wellness services; and vii. Increase community member, specifically student, sense of safety in the
Program by providing data informed safety services. For purposes of this
Agreement, community member means students, staff, parents, and volunteers of the Program.
2. TERM OF AGREEMENT AND TERMINATION.
a. The term of this Agreement shall be for a twelve-month period from _________,
2023 to June 30, 2024.
b. Either Party may terminate this agreement upon sixty (60) days' written notice to the other Party. In the event of a termination, any payments shall be prorated.
3. PROGRAM FUNDING.
st
The City shall invoice the District for the first half of the payment on January 1 of each th year and for the second half of the payment on June 30 of each year. The funding provided to the District for the 2023-2024 school year is $56,652.31 per full-time employee (FTE). The cost to the City of employing one FTE is $151,652.80 per year or
$113,739.60 during the 2023-2024 school year (September through June).
The District will services as necessary and feasible associated with student and staff safety issues, including:
a. peace officer liaison services; b. drug abuse prevention programs; c. gang resistance education training curriculum; d. security in the district's schools and on school property; e. other crime prevention, drug abuse, student and staff safety, voluntary opt-in suicide prevention tools, and violence prevention measures;
2

f. licensed school counselors, licensed school nurses, licensed school social workers, licensed school psychologists, and licensed alcohol and substance use disorder counselors to help provide early responses to problems; g. facility security enhancements related to violence prevention and facility security; h. services associated with improving the school climate; i. and costs for collocating and collaborating with mental health professionals who are not district employees or contractors.
4. SCHOOLS SERVED.
Sandburg Middle School located at 2400 Sandburg Ln, Golden Valley, MN 55427, and
Robbinsdale Academy-Highview located at 2400 Sandburg Ln, Golden Valley, MN
55427, shall receive services under this Agreement.
5. OFFICER ASSIGNMENT AND COMPENSATION.
a. The City shall, subject to Golden Valley Police Department staffing levels, assign, in accordance with all applicable state laws, employees to provide services to the
District in accordance with the duties and responsibilities defined in this
Agreement. The City will assign one licensed peace officer to serve as school resource officer during the regular school year (170 student days) covered by the term of this Agreement.
i. "School day" means a day on which school is in session for in-person instruction, hybrid instruction, or distance learning, including any make-up days that are scheduled because school was canceled for any reason.
School days are identified on the District calendar, which is published on the District's website. Days on which students attend summer school are not school days.
ii. "School property" means any property owned, leased, or controlled by the
District where an elementary school, middle school, secondary school, secondary vocational center, alternative learning program, or other school providing educational services is located or used for educational purposes, or where extracurricular or cocurricular activities are regularly provided.
b. If the Officer is absent for more than ten (10) consecutive school days, the City will undertake reasonable efforts to assign another licensed peace officer to serve as a temporary replacement and perform the regular Officer's duties during any additional absences.
b. The City will undertake reasonable efforts to assign peace officers who are acceptable to the District and will provide the District with an opportunity to provide input before a new the Officer is assigned to the District. The District will notify the City's Chief of Police of any concerns related to the performance of the
Officer. Any request for reassignment of the Officer that is based on work-related concerns must be made in writing to the Chief of Police. The City will have thirty
(30) calendar days to demonstrate to the District's satisfaction that the concern has
3

been addressed in accordance with applicable collective bargaining agreements,
City policies, and practices.
c. The City must conduct, or have conducted, a criminal background check on all peace officers who provide any service pursuant to this Agreement. The background check must be completed before the peace officer provides any service pursuant to this Agreement.
d. The District and the City each agree to provide equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws. No person may be excluded from full employment rights in, participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination in any program, service, or activity based on race, color, religion, age, sex, disability, marital status, sexual preference, public assistance status, creed, or national origin. In addition, the District and the City each specifically agree not to discriminate unlawfully against any student in any program, service, activity, or decision based on race, color, religion, age, sex, disability, marital status, sexual preference, public assistance status, creed, or national origin.
e. No Officer may be considered to be an official, employee, agent, educational service provider, or representative of the District, and neither party may make any representation to the contrary. The City maintains full control over the peace officers it employs and is solely responsible for all employment and administrative functions related its employees, including, but not limited to, supervision and evaluation, payroll and deductions, maintenance of all required insurance (e.g.
workers' compensation insurance, unemployment insurance, liability insurance), and any labor disputes or grievances.
f. The Officer shall not be a designated "school official" with regard to the
Minnesota Government Data Practices Act and Family Educational Rights and
Privacy Act while under contract and providing SRO services to the District. The
Officer will work with the District to limit the government, personnel, and educational data necessary for the Officer to complete the Officer's job duties and comply with the Minnesota Government Data Practices Act and Family
Educational Rights and Privacy.
g. All law enforcement services provided to the District shall be at the sole discretion of the City and all services shall be rendered in a manner consistent with this
Agreement.
h. The District may request additional officer presence at school related events and functions. The terms and compensation for any such engagements shall be negotiated between the Parties separately.
i. The City will be responsible for all payments regarding compensation, benefits, pension plans and withholding for its employees performing services under this Agreement.
6. SHARED ENFORCEMENT PHILOSOPHY.
4

The Parties agree that school officials and police department staff play important and distinct roles in ensuring school safety and wellness.. Accordingly, the Parties agree to adhere to the following principles with respect to the use of police powers under this
Agreement:
a. The Officer shall not act as a school disciplinarian or enforcer of school regulations or use police powers to address school discipline issues, including non-violent disruptive behavior. The Schools shall be responsible for student code of conduct violations and routine disciplinary action.
b. The Schools shall be responsible for investigating and responding to disciplinary issues, including offenses that may constitute low-level criminal activity, including but not limited to allegations of threats, physical altercations, larceny, receiving stolen property, destruction of or injury to property that is not willful and malicious or that does not cause substantial harm to school property, or the taking of property not of substantial value.
c. The Officer shall be responsible for investigating and responding to potential criminal offenses that require immediate intervention. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Parties acknowledge that many acts of student conduct that may contain all the elements of a criminal offense are best or more appropriately handled through the Schools' disciplinary process. Therefore, the Officer shall only investigate or respond to matters when the conduct is criminal in nature and:
i. Poses substantial harm to the physical well-being of the student or another person; or ii. ii. Is willful and malicious and causes substantial harm to the School's property; or iii. Constitutes the taking of property of substantial value belonging to another with intent to permanently deprive the property owner of the property.
Additionally, except as otherwise required by law, the Officer shall only conduct investigations related to students attending the Schools for incidents that occur on school property or are directly related to the Schools. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude school staff from undertaking parallel disciplinary, restorative, or administrative measures that do not interfere with a criminal investigation.
d. When circumstances require immediate intervention to maintain safety (whether or not the conduct involves criminal conduct) and if prior de-escalation attempts by school staff are unsuccessful, the Officer may act to de-escalate the immediate situation to protect the physical safety of the school community. To this end, school personnel may request the presence of the Officer when they have a reasonable and articulable fear of an imminent threat to their safety or the safety of students or other personnel.
e. The Parties shall refer students to school or community-based accountability programs or services, including but not limited to peer mediation, restorative justice, and provision of mental health services, prior to taking punitive actions, whenever possible.
5

f. The Officer shall consult with the principal or principal's designee prior to an arrest whenever practicable, and the Schools shall notify the student's parent or guardian as soon as practicable after an arrest.
g. In the absence of exigent circumstances, a peace officer who is employed by the
City may not interview a student on school property about criminal activity or potential criminal activity unless: (a) the officer is conducting a maltreatment of minor investigation; (b) the crime has occurred, is alleged to have occurred, may have occurred, is occurring, or is reasonably expected to occur in the near future on school property or at a school sponsored event or activity; or (c) the officer has obtained prior written permission from the building principal and from the student's parent or guardian or the student, if the student is eighteen (18) years of age or older. In addition, the Parties understand and agree that a peace officer, including any Officer assigned pursuant to this Agreement, may not participate in recommending or determining student discipline or in investigating incidents of student discipline which do not involve potential criminal activity.
i. "Exigent circumstances" mean circumstances under which the courts permit police officers to execute a warrantless search or seizure; circumstances under which a reasonable police officer would believe that a person presents an immediate and substantial risk of harm to self or others; circumstances under which urgent action is reasonably necessary in order to prevent the destruction of evidence of a serious crime; and circumstances in which a police officer is in hot pursuit of a suspect who is believed to have committed, or to have attempted to commit, a serious crime and is in the process of fleeing.
h. When executing an arrest warrant for a student on school property, a peace officer must make reasonable efforts to protect other students and staff members who are present and to avoid undue embarrassment to the student who is being arrested.
This paragraph is not intended to prevent an officer from taking immediate action to arrest a student who is fleeing or who presents an imminent and substantial risk of harm to self, others, or property.
i. The Officer shall not act in place of teachers, administrators, or licensed school psychologists, psychiatrists, or counselors.
j. The Officer may only use force or non-chemical restraints when a student's actions pose an imminent threat, as a last resort, or the student is subject to arrest.
The Officer shall always use the minimum amount of force necessary.
k. The Officer shall not be used as support staff, such as hall monitor, substitute teacher, or cafeteria attendant.
8. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT/CITY.
The City agrees to assume the following roles and responsibilities:
6

a. Provide all City staff involved in the Program the training necessary to achieve the
Desired Outcomes, including but not limited to: conflict resolution, harm reduction practices, restorative circle practices, community de-escalation, adverse childhood experiences (ACE) and trauma-informed care (TIC) training.
b. Provide all City staff involved in the Program training on the ongoing collateral impact on students and families of police actions and presence within a school setting.
c. Ensure the Golden Valley Police Department policy manual allows the Officer to exercise discretion to create the Desired Outcomes.
d. Except as otherwise required by law, prohibit City staff from documenting contacts with youth other than anonymized data disaggregated by race, gender, age.
e. Work with the District and the City Prosecutor to develop a program to facilitate expungement of cases and arrest records for students when appropriate or required to achieve the Desired Outcomes.
f. Make reasonable efforts to hire staff, including an Officer, with personal experience as or with justice impacted youth and families.
g. Enforce standards of performance, conduct and discipline; conduct performance reviews; and handle all internal matters related to City staff and their performance under this Agreement.
h. Collaborate with School administrative staff to develop a regular work schedule for City employees performing duties on School District property under this
Agreement.
i. Require all City employees working on District property under this Agreement to fulfill the following roles and responsibilities:
i. Act as a liaison between the District and the police department.
ii. Collaborate with other service providers and be able to identify and provide the correct wrap around services to students and families.
iii. Prioritize the wellbeing and long-term success of students and families.
iv. Understand the physical and emotional space inside the Schools and attend trainings with school staff and individually to understand the complexity of the space and the needs of the students.
v. Attend a yearly training in child development, such as Adverse
Childhood Experiences (ACE), de-escalation techniques appropriate for use with children in a school setting, mental and physical limitations and trauma, racial equity, recognizing and addressing implicit bias, non-violent crisis intervention, LGBTQIA2S+ awareness, and threat assessment.
vi. Attend periodic restorative practice training.
vii. Refrain from intervening in cases involving minor issues such as misbehavior, arguments, theft, or criminal trespassing.
viii. Attend training to understand the ongoing collateral impact of police actions on students and families.
7

ix. When requested by youth support systems (parents, kinfolk, guardians, etc.), engage with and empower those support systems to intervene on their children's behalf.
x. Hear all perspectives before determining a course of action, including students, witnesses, teachers, and, in the case of taking punitive legal action, the school principal, school behavioral health staff, the child's parent/guardians, student advocates as applicable, and Golden Valley Police
Department.
9. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OFFICER.
The Officer shall assume the following roles and responsibilities:
a. protecting persons who are present on school property or at a school sponsored event or activity; b. protecting real and personal property; c. deterring truancy; d. serving as a role model and mentor for students, parents, and community members; e. conferring with students, parents, and community members for the purpose of deterring or addressing criminal behavior on school property or at a school sponsored event or activity; f. advising on security vulnerabilities in the District's schools; g. visiting and inspecting high delinquency areas on school property; h. being present and visible on school property at the agreed upon times; i. deterring all forms of criminal activity on school property and at school sponsored events and activities; j. serving as a resource for school officials regarding the prevention of criminal activity on school property and at school sponsored events and activities; k. giving presentations to students and staff that are designed to promote safety or to deter, decrease, or otherwise address drug use or other potential criminal activity by students during school hours; l. investigating and otherwise addressing criminal activity that has occurred, is alleged to have occurred, may have occurred, or is expected to occur on school property or at a school sponsored event or activity; m. recovering stolen property; n. enforcing all criminal laws on school property and at school sponsored events and activities; o. apprehending criminals and suspected criminals; p. responding to emergencies including, but not limited to, medical emergencies and situations involving a threat of violence or harm to property or to any person who is on school property or is at a school sponsored event or activity; q. attending trainings provided by the District;
8

r. collaborating with District and outside partners to provide training on various subjects to faculty and staff as agreed to by the Golden Valley Police Department and the District; meeting and collaborating with school administrators and District administrators to develop and work toward mutually agreed upon goals; s. in collaboration with the School District, assisting with organizing, facilitating, and leading "lock down" drills for students and staff, which shall occur twice per school year; t. upon request, attending conferences with students, parents, and staff members to assist students with crime prevention or other law enforcement related issues; u. except as otherwise required by law, maintain confidentiality in all matters; v. learning about wrap around services available to students in the community and in the Schools and refer students to said services as appropriate to meet the Desired
Outcomes; working with school staff to develop plans and strategies to prevent and minimize dangerous situations at the Schools; w. abiding by the shared enforcement philosophy in paragraph 8 of this Agreement; x. as applicable, participating in all activities related to the City's role and responsibilities as stated in paragraph 8 herein and the District's roles and responsibilities as stated in paragraph 10 herein; and y. when necessary, providing assistance to other law enforcement and government agencies in matters regarding their assigned school, provided said assistance is consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
If the Officer takes law enforcement action at the Schools, the Officer shall make the principal aware of such action as soon as practicable. Whenever practicable, the
Officer shall advise the principal before requesting additional police assistance on campus. If use of force becomes necessary, the Officer shall follow all applicable city, state, and federal laws, rules, regulations and policies, as well as all requirements of this
Agreement.
10. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DISTRICT.
The District agrees to assume the following roles and responsibilities:
a. Continue restorative practice in the school community and include the Officer in relevant trainings.
b. Share any applicable Continuity of Operations Plan with all City staff working in
District buildings.
c. Communicate the presence of an Officer in the Schools to all students and families, including ways for students and families to contact the officer, provide feedback or submit complaints about the Program or the Officer.
d. Solicit regular feedback and direction about the Program directly from students and parents or guardians and share summary data regarding said feedback with the
City and Police Department.
9

e. Provide the Officer accurate and complete information regarding the District's disciplinary policies, procedures, and pilot programs relating to school safety.
f. Invite the Officer to trainings intended for all building staff as appropriate.
g. Provide the City with a written appraisal of the services rendered by the Officer at the end of each contract term.
h. Immediately notify the City in writing of any performance deficiencies or inappropriate conduct of City staff, including notifying the City of complaints by school officials, parents, guardians, or students regarding the behavior of the
Officer within 5 business days.
11. Emergency Situations a. The Parties acknowledge that from time to time an emergency situation may arise that poses a substantial and immediate threat to human safety or to property with the risk of substantial damage. School personnel having knowledge of any such emergency situation should immediately notify (or cause to be notified) Golden
Valley Police Department by dialing 911 and, if practicable, notifying the Officer and the principal.
b. Nothing in this section or this Agreement shall prevent the principal from reporting possible criminal activity or conduct by a person who is not a student of the Schools. Nothing in this section or this Agreement shall prevent School personnel from complying with all applicable reporting requirements under state and federal law.
c. All government data that are collected, created, received, or maintained as a result of this Agreement will be handled in accordance with all applicable federal and state laws, including, but not limited to, the Minnesota Government Data Practices
Act ("MGDPA"). The Parties recognize that educational data maintained by the
District are protected under the MGDPA and under and the Family Educational
Rights Privacy Act ("FERPA"), including its implementing regulations at 34
C.F.R. part 99. The Parties acknowledge that unless a statutory exception applies, the District may not disclose private educational data to an Officer without the written consent of the student's parent or guardian (or the written consent of the student if the student is eighteen years of age or older); a lawfully issued subpoena; or a court order. Nothing in this Agreement may be construed to modify the responsibilities of either party under the MGDPA or the District's responsibilities under FERPA.
d. Officers will not use prone restraint or other forms of restraint that are prohibited by law. Officers will attend the District's chosen de-escalation and restraint/seclusion annually and will abide by the practices as provided in those trainings.
12. TRANSPORTING STUDENTS.
The Officer shall not transport students in Police Department vehicles except:
10

a. When the students are victims of a crime, under arrest, experiencing a medical emergency, or some other emergency circumstance exists.
b. The Officer shall notify school personnel before removing a student from the
Schools.
13. MEASURING SUCCESS.
a. To achieve desired outcomes, except as otherwise required or prohibited by law, the Parties shall collect the following anonymized data disaggregated by race, gender and age:
i. Student arrest data; ii. Student attendance data; iii. Diversion and restorative practice program data; iv. Reports of discrimination, bullying, and harassment; v. Number of times Officer presence is requested by building staff, including name of staff member requesting officer presence, reason for request, and outcome; vi. Amount of time the Officer spends on law enforcement activities, disciplinary activities, attending school events and functions, meeting with students and families, etc.; vii. Perception of safety data from parents, students and staff;
Law enforcement data, including police calls for service criminal charges, and arrests in school-related incidents. This data shall include, at a minimum, whether the contact was a general law enforcement referral, a police call, a criminal charge, or an arrest; the referral source (e.g.
administrator, staff member, student, etc.); whether the student was charged with a crime; the category of the crime charged; and student and referral source demographic data for all students and staff involved. The Police
Department will compile this data in a statistical report (the "Activity
Report") and provide it to the School District on a monthly basis.
The Activity Report may also contain narrative data provided by students, parents or guardians, staff or the Officer, provided, however, that the
Activity Report shall contain only public data.
b. The Parties agree to conduct an annual performance evaluation of assigned City staff to include feedback from School district staff, students, parents or guardians of students and an annual equity analysis, including data disaggregated by race, ethnicity, gender/gender identity, and biological sex/sex-assigned-at-birth.
14. SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT.
Each party shall provide any required clothing, uniforms, and equipment required for its employees to perform their duties under this Agreement. The District shall provide the
Officer access to an office equipped with a desk, telephone, chairs, and office supplies to
11

be used for general business purposes. The City is responsible for providing the Officer with a vehicle and all necessary law enforcement equipment, including any necessary electronic devices.
15. INDEMNIFICATION.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, actions by the Parties pursuant to this Agreement are intended to be and shall be construed as a "cooperative activity" and it is the intent of the Parties that they shall be deemed a "single governmental unit" for the purposes of liability, all as set forth in Minnesota Statutes, Section 471.59, subd. 1a; provided further that for purposes of that statute, each party to this Agreement expressly declines responsibility for the acts or omissions of the other party. Each party also specifically intends that the single tort cap limits specified for cooperative agreements under Minn.
Stat. § 471.59, subd. 1a, or as such statute may be amended or modified from time to time, shall apply to this Agreement and to the activities of the Parties hereunder. The statutory limits for the Parties may not be added together or stacked to increase the maximum amount of liability for either party. Neither party waives any defenses or immunities available under Minnesota Statutes Chapter 466.
16. INSURANCE.
The Parties shall maintain reasonable insurance coverage throughout the term of this
Agreement. Each shall name the other party as an additional insured and such insurance policies shall not be cancelled or amended unless 30 days' written notice is provided to the other party.
17. NOTICE.
Any notice, demand, request or other communication that may or shall be given or served by the Parties, shall be deemed to have been given or served on the date the same is deposited in the United States mail, registered or certified postage prepaid and addressed as follows. If to the City: Attn: City Manager, City of Golden Valley, 7800 Golden Valley
Road, Golden Valley, MN 555427. If to the District, Attn: Executive Director of Finance,
Business Office, 4148 Winnetka Avenue N., New Hope, MN 55427.
18. WAIVER AND ENFORCEMENT.
The failure to insist on compliance with any term, covenant, or condition contained in this Agreement must not be deemed to be a waiver of that term, covenant, or condition, nor will any waiver or relinquishment of any right or power contained in this Agreement at any time be deemed to be a waiver or relinquishment of any right or power at any other time. Each party is responsible for its own costs, expenses, and any attorneys' fees associated with this Agreement and any related matters, including enforcement of this
Agreement.
19. EQUAL DRAFTING.
12

In the event that either party asserts that a provision of this Agreement is ambiguous, this
Agreement must be construed to have been drafted equally by the Parties.
20. CHOICE OF LAW, FORUM, AND SEVERABILITY.
This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Minnesota, without regard to its conflict of laws provisions. The Parties agree that the Minnesota state and federal courts will have exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute arising out of this Agreement. If a court determines that any part of this Agreement is unlawful or unenforceable, the remaining portions of the Agreement will remain in full force and effect.
21. ENTIRE AGREEMENT; AMENDMENTS.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties and no other agreement prior to this Agreement or contemporaneous herewith shall be effective except as expressly set forth or incorporated herein. Any purposed amendment shall not be effective unless it is set forth in writing, approved, and signed by both Parties.
CITY OF GOLDEN VALLEY
Mayor Date
City Administrator Date
Chief of Police Date
INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 281
School Board Chair Date
School Board Clerk Date
Manager Name, Title
13