Robbinsdale Area Schools
2024-2025 District Strategic Priority Work
Priority Outcomes Grounded in Equity (Re)Discover Rdale Strategic Plan
● Improve achievement for students of color
● All students are ready for school
● Every child reading at or above grade level by the end of third grade
● Academic and social-emotional growth in middle grades
● Student engagement in school and learning
● Student support from families to learn and achieve
● Clear path and readiness for career, college and life
Strategic Theme A: Academic Achievement (Re)Discover Rdale Strategic Plan
1. Enhance cultural relevance of curriculum for students.
2. Enhance an equitable learning system from early childhood to adults.
3. Increase responsiveness to individual student needs.
4. Deepen preparation for life, college and career.
Year 1 - 2024-2025 Working Documents Summary Outcomes
1.a. Implement culturally responsive teaching and culturally relevant instructional resources
1.b. Implementation of phases of
Science of Reading (SoR)
PreK-12 grades
2.a. Implement a blended learning instructional framework throughout RAS
2.b. Transform grading practices to incorporate standards-based grading
2.c. Implement a redesigned middle school model district-wide
DRAFT

Robbinsdale Area Schools
4.a. Increase opportunities for applied career experiences
4.b. Integrate career exploration within the PreK-12 curriculum
4.c. Define the essential characteristics of the future graduate in collaboration with our community, and align learning opportunities for all students
Strategic Theme B: Student Engagement and Wellness (Re)Discover Rdale Strategic Plan
1. Improve student-staff connection
2. Increase student access to school opportunities, programs, and activities
3. Increase support for student social, emotional, and mental wellness
4. Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety
Year 1 - 2024-2025 Working Documents Summary Outcomes
1.a. Implement a system to ensure every student has a positive relationship with at least one adult at school
1.b. Identify and implement student voice at the building and district level
4.a. Train staff and students on policies regarding protocols on staff and student interactions
Strategic Theme C: Collaboration and Partnerships (Re)Discover Rdale Strategic Plan
1. Strengthen mutual communication and responsiveness with all stakeholders
2. Expand equitable inclusion and influence of student, family, staff, and community voice
3. Maximize our partnerships and embrace our diverse community
DRAFT

Robbinsdale Area Schools
Year 1 - 2024-2025 Working Documents Summary Outcomes
1.a. Inform and engage stakeholders through targeted and responsive communication
1.b. Improve communication with multilingual families, communities - at all levels
(classroom, school, district)
2.a. Increase opportunities for families and community members to influence school culture and climate and improve student outcomes
Strategic Theme D: Staff Investment and Impact (Re)Discover Rdale Strategic Plan
1. Enhance hiring and retention to support student success
2. Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive, and welcoming
3. Increase consistency and accountability for common district practices
4. Provide high quality professional development opportunities
Year 1 - 2024-2025 Working Documents Summary Outcomes
2.a. Develop and strengthen onboarding and mentorship programs with each employee group
2.b. Establish an employee culture that is anti-racist, welcoming, and grounded in mutual respect for each other
3.a. Create a robust evaluation system, with documentation, that includes feedback to strengthen performance of
DRAFT

Robbinsdale Area Schools each staff member
3.b. Create a common and comprehensive vetting process to align, implement, and evaluate district initiatives
Strategic plan framework | Revised June 28, 2024 | https://www.rdale.org/discover/strategic-plan
DRAFT

Robbinsdale Area Schools
DRAFT

Robbinsdale Area Schools

System of Continuous Improvement
Shared Leadership Model, Strategic Plan and Operational! Plan

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools . . .
District Continuous Improvement
(Re)Discover Rdale Strategic Plan
School Board goals, agenda and working document
District strategic priority work
District Balanced Scorecard

Outcomes grounded in equity (in scorecard as metrics)

Strategic Themes
Academic Achievement
Student Engagement and Wellness
Collaboration and Partnerships
Staff Investment and Impact

Effective Instruction for Student-Centered
Personalized Learning

Professional Learning and Development

Professional Learning
Communities (PLCs)