Facility and Play Spaces Grants - Resolution of Local Government Unit
WHEREAS, the Hennepin County Board of Commissioners, via the Hennepin Youth Activities
Grants, provides for capital funds to assist local government units of Hennepin County for the development of sports or recreational facilities, and
WHEREAS, Independent School District No. 281(local government unit, hereinafter LGU)
desires to develop Active Spaces for Youth (name of project, hereinafter PROJECT).
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE School Board (authorizing entity) of the
LGU:
I. The estimate of the total cost of developing PROJECT shall be $350,000. The LGU is requesting $300,000 from the Hennepin Youth Activities Grants program and will assume responsibility for providing matching funds of $50,000.
II. Independent School District No. 281 (LGU or other entity as allowed by LGU) is the owner of the property where the PROJECT is located. Independent School District No. 281
(same entity) will own the property where PROJECT is located for at least the functional life of the facility, which is estimated to be 15 years. The PROJECT may not be converted to a non-public or non-recreational uses within this time period without the approval of Hennepin
County.
[NOTICE: If the LGU will not be the owner of the property, a Covenant between the LGU and the owner must be executed. Please refer to other program materials for the requirements of the covenant.]
III. Independent School District No. 281 (LGU or other entity as allowed by LGU) agrees to assume one hundred (100) percent of operational and maintenance costs for
PROJECT. Independent School District No. 281 (same entity) will operate PROJECT
for its intended purpose as stated in the PROJECT application for the functional life of the facility.
IV. LGU agrees to enter into necessary and required agreements with Hennepin County for the specific purpose of developing PROJECT and managing its long-term operation.
V. That Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities (authorized representative of the LGU) is authorized and directed to execute the application for the Hennepin
Youth Activities Grants program.
CERTIFICATION
I hereby certify that the foregoing resolution is a true and correct copy of the resolution presented to and adopted by the Board of Education (authorizing entity) at a duly authorized meeting thereof held on the _____ day of October, 2023, as shown by the minutes of said meeting in my possession.
Board Chair Date