2025-26 Strategic Priority Work
THEME A: Academic Achievement
● Enhance cultural relevance of curriculum for students
○ Expand the Science of Reading programming through continued staff training and the implementation of a new K-5 English Language Arts curriculum.
○ Expand the implementation of Culturally and Linguistically Responsive Teaching to include all non-licensed and K-5 staff.
● Enhance an equitable learning system from early childhood to adults
○ Implement with fidelity an effective teaching framework focused on student engagement and purpose.
● Deepen preparation for life, college, and career
○ Continue to build and grow RPathways through certifications, programming, and student participation in dual credit and concurrent enrollment courses.
○ Expand the use of Xello to support middle and high school students in planning.
THEME B: Student Engagement and Wellness
● Improve student-staff connection
○ Maintain the BARR programming strength at two high schools and explore the expansion of the program into the middle schools.
○ Increase the number of staff trained on the Catalyst framework and explore the expansion of the program into all K-8 sites.
○ Continue to implement and strengthen Restorative Practices throughout the district.
● Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety
○ Strengthen systems and structures at the building level supporting student's feeling of social and emotional as well as physical safety.
○ Continue to grow a comprehensive crisis management and safety plan.
THEME C: Collaboration and Partnership
● Strengthen mutual communication and responsiveness with all stakeholders
○ Increase and streamline the cascade of communications to families, staff and our community.
● Expand equitable inclusion and influence of student, family, staff, and community voices
○ Establish additional events and activities, such as family engagement events, in response to the needs and interests of our stakeholders.
○ Elevate the voice of all students, including the impact of the Youth Council and other
DRAFT
student leadership groups.
THEME D: Staff Investment and Impact
● Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive, and welcoming
○ Develop and implement a systemic onboarding process at the district and site level for all employees to improve clarity of roles, success and retention.
● Increase consistency and accountability for common district practices
○ Develop and implement operating procedures to provide clarity and expectations in standard districtwide practices.
May 16, 2025