Extract of Minutes of Meeting of the School Board of
Independent School District No. 281
(Robbinsdale Area Schools)
Hennepin County, Minnesota
Pursuant to due call and notice thereof, a special meeting of the School Board of Independent
School District No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools), Hennepin County, Minnesota, was duly held at the
Education Service Center in the City of New Hope, Minnesota, on Friday, July 21, 2023, commencing at
5:00 p.m.
The following directors were present: Divectovs : Bass ctl, Bowmin,

Brooks, Evans- -Becver , Holmes ;
Long, Ana Vento

and the following were absent: None

* KOK KK * ROK

The Chair announced that the next order of business was consideration of the following resolution providing for the issuance and sale of the District's General Obligation Facilities Maintenance Bonds,
Series 2023A, subject to certain parameters, declaring the official intent of the District to reimburse certain expenditures from the proceeds of such bonds, and taking other actions with respect thereto.

Director Passett introduced the following resolute 8 and moved its adoption:
waived veadli ing,

RB500-13-881235.v2

RESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUANCE AND SALE
OF GENERAL OBLIGATION FACILITIES MAINTENANCE
BONDS, SERIES 2023A, SUBJECT TO CERTAIN PARAMETERS;
DECLARING THE OFFICIAL INTENT OF THE DISTRICT TO
REIMBURSE CERTAIN EXPENDITURES FROM THE
PROCEEDS OF SUCH BONDS; AND TAKING OTHER ACTIONS
WITH RESPECT THERETO

BE IT RESOLVED by the School Board (the "Board") of Independent School District No. 281
(Robbinsdale Area Schools), Hennepin County, Minnesota (the "District") as follows:

1. Authorization.

(a) The District is authorized under the provisions of Minnesota Statutes,
Chapter 475, as amended, and Section 123B.595, as amended (collectively, the "Act"), to issue general obligation bonds for the purpose of financing certain facilities and site maintenance projects included in a ten (10) year facilities maintenance plan approved by the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Education (the "Commissioner").

(b) On June 20, 2023, the Board approved the District's ten (10) year facilities maintenance plan (the "Plan") and authorized and directed District staff to submit to the
Commissioner the Plan and such additional documents and information as may be necessary to secure the approval of the Plan by the Commissioner and the issuance of bonds to finance the
Plan pursuant to the Act.

(c) The Board finds it necessary and desirable that the District issue its General
Obligation Facilities Maintenance Bonds, Series 2023A (the "Bonds"), in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $19,700,000, pursuant to the Act, to finance certain facilities maintenance projects included in the Plan (collectively, the "Projects").

(d) The District is authorized by Section 475.60, subdivision 2(9) of the Act to negotiate the sale of the Bonds, it being determined that the District has retained an independent municipal advisor in connection with the sale of the Bonds. The actions of the District staff and its municipal advisor in negotiating the sale of the Bonds are ratified and confirmed in all aspects.

Ze Procedure for Review of Proposals and Selection of Purchaser. The Board authorizes the
Superintendent of the District or the Executive Director of Finance and an officer of the Board designated by the Board (the "Authorized Officials"), with the advice of PMA Securities, LLC, the District's municipal advisor (the "Municipal Advisor"), to review the proposals for the purchase of the Bonds and award the sale of the Bonds to the prospective purchaser (the "Purchaser"), based on the recommendation of the Municipal Advisor, and take any other appropriate action with respect to the Bonds, including but not limited to the execution and delivery of a purchase agreement with respect to the Bonds, provided that the following conditions are met: (i) the principal amount of the Bonds shall not exceed $19,700,000; and
(ii) the true interest cost of the Bonds shall be the lowest offered by any prospective purchaser.

3. Acceptance of Proposal. Following the acceptance by the Authorized Officials of the proposal of the Purchaser, the Board will meet to ratify such acceptance and take any other appropriate action with respect to the Bonds.

RB500-13-881235.v2

4. Authority of Municipal Advisor, The Municipal Advisor is authorized and directed to advertise the Bonds for sale in accordance with the terms of proposal to be prepared for the Bonds.

5. Authority of Bond Counsel. The law firm of Kennedy & Graven, Chartered, as bond counsel for the District ("Bond Counsel"), is authorized to act as bond counsel and to assist in the preparation and review of necessary documents, certificates and instruments relating to the Bonds. The officers, employees and agents of the District are hereby authorized to assist Bond Counsel and the
Municipal Advisor in the preparation of such documents, certificates, and instruments.

6. Covenant as to State Credit Enhancement.

(a) The District hereby covenants and obligates itself to notify the Commissioner of a potential default in the payment of principal and interest on the Bonds and to use the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Section 126C.55, as amended (the "State Credit Enhancement Act"), to guarantee payment of the principal and interest on the Bonds when due. The District further covenants to deposit with the registrar and paying agent for the Bonds (the "Registrar") or any successor paying agent three (3) business days prior to the date on which a payment is due an amount sufficient to make that payment or to notify the Commissioner that it will be unable to make all or a portion of that payment. The Registrar is authorized and directed to notify the
Commissioner if it becomes aware of a potential default in the payment of principal or interest on the Bonds or if, on the day two (2) business days prior to the date a payment is due on the Bonds, there are insufficient funds to make that payment on deposit with the Registrar. The District understands that as a result of its covenant to be bound by the provisions of the State Credit
Enhancement Act, the provisions of that section shall be binding as long as any Bonds of this issue remain outstanding.

(b) The District further covenants to comply with all procedures now and hereafter established by the Minnesota Departments of Management and Budget and Education pursuant to subdivision 2(c) of the State Credit Enhancement Act and otherwise to take such actions as necessary to comply therewith. The Chair, Clerk, Superintendent, or Executive Director of
Finance of the District is authorized to execute any applicable Minnesota Department of
Education forms.

7s Covenants. In the resolution ratifying the sale of the Bonds, the Board will set forth the covenants and undertakings required by the Act.

8. Official Statement. In connection with the offer and sale of the Bonds, the officers or employees of the District are authorized and directed to cooperate with the Municipal Advisor and participate in the preparation of an official statement for the Bonds and to execute and deliver it on behalf of the District upon its completion.

9. Declaration of Official Intent to Reimburse Certain Costs from Proceeds of the Bonds.
The District hereby makes this declaration of official intent (the "Declaration'") to reimburse the expenditures made for certain costs of the Projects, from the proceeds of the Bonds in accordance with
Treasury Regulations, Section 1.150-2 (the "Reimbursement Regulations"). All reimbursed expenditures will be capital expenditures, costs of issuance of the bonds, or other expenditures eligible for reimbursement under Section 1.150-2(d)(3) of the Reimbursement Regulations. This Declaration has been made not later than sixty (60) days after payment of any original expenditure to be subject to a reimbursement allocation with respect to the proceeds of tax-exempt bonds, except for the following expenditures: (a) costs of issuance of bonds; (b) costs in an amount not in excess of the lesser of
$100,000 or five percent (5%) of the proceeds of an issue; or (c) "preliminary expenditures" up to an

3
RB500-13-881235.v2

amount not in excess of twenty percent (20%) of the aggregate issue price of the issue or issues that finance or are reasonably expected by the District to finance the project for which the preliminary expenditures were incurred. The term "preliminary expenditures" includes architectural, engineering, surveying, soil testing, bond issuance, and similar costs that are incurred prior to commencement of acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation of a project, other than land acquisition, site preparation, and similar costs incident to commencement of construction.

10. Publication of Notice of Intended Projects and Intent to Issue the Bonds. The Clerk is authorized to publish a notice of the intended Projects and the District's intent to issue the Bonds in the official newspaper of the District, in substantially the form attached as EXHIBIT A hereto, as soon as reasonably practicable after adoption of this resolution, but in any event at least twenty (20) days before the earlier of the issuance of the Bonds or the final certification of levies.

11. Expiration of Resolution. If the Authorized Officials have not approved the sale of the
Bonds and executed a purchase agreement with the Purchaser by December 31, 2023, this resolution shall expire.

(The remainder of this page is intentionally left blank.)

RBS500-13-881235.v2

The motion for the adoption of the foregoing resolution was duly seconded by Director

Venta , and upon vote being taken thereon the following directors voted in favor of the motion:
Divectors: Bassett, Brooks, Evane -Becker ana Vento

and the following voted against:

Directors: Cowman, Holmes and Long

whereupon the resolution was declared duly passed and adopted.

RB500-13-881235.v2

EXHIBIT A

NOTICE OF FACILITIES MAINTENANCE PROJECTS

Independent School District No. 281
(Robbinsdale Area Schools)
Hennepin County, Minnesota

Notice is hereby given that the School Board of Independent School District No. 281
(Robbinsdale Area Schools), Hennepin County, Minnesota (the "District"), intends to issue its general obligation facilities maintenance bonds in the maximum aggregate principal amount of $19,700,000 (the
"Facilities Maintenance Bonds") pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 475, as amended, and
Minnesota Statutes, Section 123B.595, as amended. The proceeds of the Facilities Maintenance Bonds will be used to finance certain facilities maintenance projects included in the District's ten (10) year facilities plan, including but not limited to the projects described in the table below and other deferred maintenance projects, and related costs.

School Facility

Cooper High School
SEA Olson Elementary School
Meadow Lake Elementary School

Armstrong High School

Robbinsdale Middle School
Sandburg Middle School
Lakeview Elementary School
Sonnesyn Elementary School
Robbinsdale Spanish Immersion
School

Central Warehouse

Northport Elementary School
FAIR Crystal School

Project

Roofing projects; tennis court reconstruction

Parking lot repair and resurfacing

Chilled beam HVAC system; associated ceiling work; classroom and corridor lighting replacement; fire alarm and paging system
Roofing; HVAC controls and fan coils; running track replacement; tennis court reconstruction; acoustic ceiling replacement; carpet replacement; interior door and door hardware

Roofing; mechanical controls

Front end mechanical controls

Elevator replacement; exterior wall pipe removal

Plumbing fixture replacement

Roofing; structural improvements

Ventilation; fire wall; building controls/HVAC; fire panel; lighting
Plumbing fixture replacement
Chiller replacement

The total amount of District indebtedness as of July 1, 2023 is $196,293,554. If these proposed
Facilities Maintenance Bonds are issued, the total indebtedness of the District will be $215,993,554.

Dated: July 21, 2023

RB500-13-881235.v2

BY ORDER OF THE SCHOOL BOARD

/s/_ Sharon E. Brooks

Clerk

Independent School District No. 281
(Robbinsdale Area Schools), Hennepin County,
Minnesota

STATE OF MINNESOTA __)
) Ss.
COUNTY OF HENNEPIN __)

I, the undersigned, being the duly qualified and acting Clerk of Independent School District No.
281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools), Hennepin County, Minnesota (the "District"), do hereby certify that I
have carefully compared the attached and foregoing extract of minutes of a special meeting of the School
Board of the District held on July 21, 2023, with the original minutes on file in my office and the extract is a full, true and correct copy of the minutes insofar as they relate to the issuance and sale of the
District's General Obligation Facilities Maintenance Bonds, Series 2023A, subject to certain parameters, and declaring the official intent of the District to reimburse certain expenditures from the proceeds of such bonds.

WITNESS My hand officially as such Clerk this ae © aay of July, 2023.

SZ Probe

Clerk

Independent School District No. 281
(Robbinsdale Area Schools), Hennepin County,
Minnesota

RBS500-13-881235.v2

PARAMETERS RESOLUTION INFORMATION
Please email a completed copy of this page to:
Ellen Gerdts, Paralegal

at egerdts@kennedy-graven.com
Questions: Please email or call (612-337-9204)

Motion made by: Pivectov Helen Passctt
Motion seconded by: Director John Vento

School Board directors present: Divectovs Bassett ) Bowmen , Brooks ,
Evane-Becker, Holmes, Long, ana Vento

School Board directors absent: None

School Board directors voting for: Divectors: Bassct£, Brooks, Evans- Becker
)
and Vento

School Board directors voting against: Dwectors . Bowman ) H lo | mes a nol
Lo 1g y)