Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved January 9, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, December 19, 2022, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bassett called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, David Boone, Sharon Brooks
Green, Greta Evans-Becker, Sam Sant, and John Vento; and David Engstrom, Superintendent. Director(s) absent:
Michael Herring. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Director Boone moved to amend the meeting to move Policy 203.7: Board/Superintendent Relationship to action for a vote under Operations as item 6.1. and Policy 203.8: Board/Other Staff Relationship to action for a vote under
Operations as item 6.J., Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Sant, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Chair Bassett asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda as amended for December 19, 2022.
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the agenda, and Director Sant seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Sant, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Arts Showcase

'Art is Primary" Elementary Art Show at Robbin Gallery - presented by Kim Carroll, RAS Elementary Visual Arts
Teacher and Jeanne Johnson, Gallery Director of Robbin Gallery

Ms. Carroll and Ms. Johnson provided information about this event which began on December 8 and will conclude on
December 27 - featuring the works of our district elementary students. If unable to attend in person, it can be viewed

in the Virtual Gallery.

Special Chair Report

Presented by Helen Bassett, School Board Chair

Chair Bassett honored David Boone (2 terms, 8 years), Michael Herring (2 terms, 8 years) and Sam Sant (1 term, 4
years) in appreciation of their service to the district as members of our school board.

Superintendent's Report

Presented by David Engstrom, Superintendent

Superintendent Engstrom echoed Chair Bassett's sentiments in regard to Directors Boone, Herring and Sant -
expressing his gratitude for their service and dedication to our district and students.

Non-Action: 2022 Staff Charitable Giving Campaign - presented by Anthony Williams, Executive Director of
Community Education, Athletics and Activities

Mr. Williams presented award certificates to the following:

Dyne Stephenson, Robbinsdale Academy-Highview for Best Overall Campaign

Shirrie Jackson, Robbinsdale Middle School for her commitment to the campaign

Lisa Jenson, Armstrong High School for the Above and Beyond Award

Sarah Krizmanic, Meadow Lake Elementary for running a consistently strong campaign

Rose Sybrant, Robbinsdale Spanish Immersion School for the Campaign of Excellence Award

This year's campaign raised $20,080.00 for the Seven Dreams Foundation and $12,201.00 for the Greater Twin Cities
United Way for a total of $32,281.00.

Superintendent Engstrom reviewed the safety and security measures that have been taken recently:
e Update and approval of Policy 501: School Weapons, outlining changes in protocol for:
o Media threats

o Dangerous weapons

Social media threats

Met with local law enforcement regarding training and providing information on what the district needs
Working with schools on drills

Testing alarm and safety systems over winter break

Use of Gaggle for reporting of anonymous safety concerns by students (as they are often aware of situations prior to adults)

He also expressed his appreciation to the public for alerting us to situations of which they are aware.

@eeeeod

Operations
A. Action: Approval of 2023 Legislative Action Coalition (LAC) Platform
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Sant seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Sant, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Approval of Resolution Designating Polling Places for ISD No. 281 for 2023
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Sant seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Sant, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Action: Approval of Staff Ratio/Classroom Range for 2023-2024
MOTION: Director Sant moved approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Sant, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Action: Approval of Levy Pay 2023
MOTION: Director Vento waived reading and moved approval, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks
Green, Evans-Becker, Sant, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

E. Action: Approval of Policy 203: Operation of the School Board
MOTION: Director Vento waived reading and moved approval, and Director Sant seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Sant, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

F. Action: Approval of Policy 203.1: School Board Procedures/Rules of Order
MOTION: Director Boone moved approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Sant, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

G. Action: Approval of School of Engineering and Arts (SEA) at Olson easement for Flood Control
MOTION: Chair Bassett moved approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Sant, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

H. Action: Approval of Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $16,230.30.
MOTION: Director Sant moved approval, and Director Brooks Green seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker,
Sant, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

|. Action: Approval of Policy 203.7: Board/Superintendent Relationship
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Sant seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Sant, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

J. Action: Approval of Policy 203.8: Board/Other Staff Relationship
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Boone seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Sant, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters. MOTION: Director Sant moved approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Sant, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Boone facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Three community members spoke in regards to: Safety in regard to security of all doors to keep students/teachers safe, Sandy Hook Promise implementation, missing committee minutes on website, middle school information nights not staggered, community education brochure photographs not of district students/staff/community members, communication, request for Gaggle presentation in future Board meeting and handicap access in our buildings.

Closed Session

MOTION: Director Brooks Green moved entering into a closed session pursuant to Minnesota statutes, section
13D.05, subdivision 3(b) and the attorney/client privilege - Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Sant seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Boone, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker,
Sant, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

some b Ata prt Y- Date: old 9(23

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281