2023 RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING THE USE OF FACSIMILE SIGNATURE AND SURETY BOND

The board is asked to approve the resolution authorizing use of facsimile signatures and a surety bond:

a) Pursuant to M.S. 47.41, the school board and the chairperson, clerk and treasurer thereof hereby authorize the school district depository banks to honor checks, drafts, warrants, warrant-checks and other orders on public funds bearing facsimile signatures of any of said officers and to charge the same to the account upon which drawn as fully as though those instruments bore the manually written signatures of any of said officers.

b) Pursuant to M.S. 47.42, the school board of said district approves the use of such facsimile signatures and hereby determines to insure the school district with any insurance company authorized to do business within the state in the amount of up to $500,000 blanket employee faithful performance bond forgery insurance against the loss of any public funds which may be withdrawn upon unauthorized use of such facsimile signatures, and an officer of said school district shall not be personally liable for loss resulting from the use of any facsimile signature unless said loss occurs by reason of that officer's wrongful act.

c) The clerk is hereby authorized and directed to furnish the school district depositories with copies of this resolution, and the school district officers and said depositories are hereby authorized and directed to make the necessary arrangements for the use of facsimile signatures hereafter.

d) Pursuant to M.S. 123.B.02, Subd.1, covering general powers, the school board authorized the superintendent of schools and the superintendent's assistant to utilize facsimile signature stamps covering the chairperson and the clerk signatures. The facsimile signature stamps covering the chairperson and the clerk are hereby authorized and may be used whenever there is not an actual handwritten signature required by
Minnesota statute.

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the ISD 281 School Board formally approves the Resolution Authorizing the
Use of Facsimile Signatures and Surety Bond.

Divectov Basse .
Motion was moved by (waive, Wa) , seconded by_ Dive ctor Vento , and upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted ir' favor thereof:

And the following voted against the same:

WHEREUPON, said resolution was declared duly passed and adopted.

CHAIR: Lia Cone: Lek) pate: __ 1/9 | 202).

CLERK: Fre} - pate: _'/9 |202y4

TREASURER: pare:__ 1/4 / 20zy

Nl