DocuSign Envelope ID: A4FD2598-3415-42BB-B693-87BEB23C9F87

SEPARATION AGREEMENT AND RELEASE

This Separation Agreement and Release ("Agreement") is made and entered into by and between Jay Dornfeld ("Employee"), the Robbinsdale Federation of Teachers ("RFT") and
Independent School District No. 281, Robbinsdale Area School District ("District"). District,
RFT and Employee are interchangeably and generically referred to in this Agreement as "Party"
or "Parties".

Article 1
Recitals

1.1 Employment Relationship. Employee is employed by the District as a continuing contract teacher and is a member of the bargaining group of teachers represented by the RFT.
Employee wishes to voluntarily resign prior to the completion of the 2022-2023 school year and
District is willing to accept Employee's voluntary resignation

1.2. End of Employment. Employee, RFT and District agree Employee's last day of employment is January 31, 2023 ("Separation Date") and that Employee will submit a letter of resignation reflecting such date to the District's Executive Director of Human Resources.

1.3 Purpose of Settlement. This Agreement is to set forth the specific consideration that Employee will receive in exchange for Employee's agreement to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, is a full compromise of the Parties' respective claims and represents the Parties'
desire to amicably resolve the Employee's departure from employment with the District.

1.4 Covenants and Promises. In consideration of the covenants and promises contained in this Agreement and for other valuable consideration, receipt of which is acknowledged, the following Agreement is entered into by the Employee and the District.

Article 2
Accrued Compensation

2.1. Salary and Benefits. Employee acknowledges and agrees that Employee has received from District all accrued salary including benefits earned through the Separation Date subject to standard payroll deductions and withholdings and is not eligible for any other compensation, payments or benefits of any kind except for those expressly described in Article 3
of this Agreement, which Employee will receive if Employee signs, returns and does not rescind this Agreement.

2.2 Retirement Plans. To the extent that Employee is currently a vested participant in any retirement, pension or profit sharing plans of the District, Employee will be entitled to begin drawing Employee's benefits at the times and under the terms and conditions set forth in such plans.

DocuSign Envelope ID: A4FD2598-3415-42BB-B693-87BEB23C9F87

Article 3
Consideration

District agrees to provide Employee with the following Payments and Benefits as part of this Agreement provided Employee signs, returns and does not rescind this Agreement.

3.1. Separation Payment. Specifically in consideration of Employee signing this
Agreement and submitting a Letter of Resignation and subject to the limitations, obligations and other provisions contained in this Agreement, the District will pay Employee an amount of Thirty
One Thousand Eight Hundred Forty Three and 50/100 Dollars ($31,843.50) ("Separation
Payment") which constitutes seventy one (71) days of Employee's unused Paid Time Off
("PTO") multiplied by the Employee's daily rate of Four Hundred Forty Eight and 50/100
($448.50). The Separation Payment will be paid in a lump sum within fifteen (15) days following expiration of the Rescission Period described in Article 13 of this Agreement. The Separation
Payment will be subject to standard deductions and withholding.

Article 4
Release of Claims

4.1 Release of Claims. Employee, for Employee's person, heirs, representatives, agents, successors and assigns, hereby each releases and forever discharges the District and any parent, subsidiary or related entity, and all present and past officers, directors, shareholders, employees, insurers, administrators or trustees of any benefit plan, agents and representatives of the District and of any parent, subsidiary or related entity, both individually and in their corporate or official capacity, and the successors and assigns of each, from any and all manner of past, present, or future claims, demands, actions, causes of action, administrative claims, liability, damages, claims for punitive or liquidated damages, claims for attorney's fees, costs and disbursements, any individual or class action claims, or demand of any kind whatsoever, including but not limited to any claims for wages, commissions, vacation, paid time off, severance pay or benefits, bonus, any claims arising by statute, in tort or contract, any constitutional claims, any claims arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et seq., the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. § 621 et seq., the Americans with Disabilities Act,
42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq., the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), 20 U.S.C.
§1001 et seq., the Family and Medical Leave Act, 29 U.S.C. § 2601 et seq., the Minnesota Human
Rights Act, Minnesota Statutes Chapter 363A, Minnesota Statutes Chapters 177 or 181, any other claims arising under federal, state or local law or regulation, or any claims in any manner relating to Employee's employment or Employee's association with or separation from District arising in law or equity, whether known, suspected or unknown, and however originating or existing, from the beginning of time to the date of the signing of this Agreement.

4.2 Claims Not Waived. Employee does not, by signing this Agreement, release or waive (a) any vested interest Employee may have in any 403(b) plan or the District's pension plan by virtue of Employee's employment with the District, (b) any rights or claims that may arise after the effective date of this Agreement, (c) the payment(s) set forth in Article 3 of this Agreement,
(d) the right to institute legal action for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Agreement,

DocuSign Envelope ID: A4FD2598-3415-42BB-B693-87BEB23C9F87

(e) the right to apply for state unemployment compensation benefits, (f) the right to file a charge with a governmental agency, including the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, although
Employee agrees that Employee will not be able to recover any award of compensation, damages or any other moneys if Employee files a charge or complaint or has a charge filed on Employee's behalf with any federal, state or local government agency.

Article 5
Property

By signing this Agreement Employee warrants that Employee will return to District all
District documents (and all copies thereof) and any other District property in Employee's possession, custody or control, including, but not limited to, District files, notes, drawings, records, e-mails, business plans and forecasts, financial information, specifications, computer-recorded information, tangible property, credit cards, entry cards, identification badges and keys and any material of any kind whether in hard copy, computer disc or tape or otherwise (and all reproductions thereof) which contain or embody any District information, including, but not limited to, proprietary or confidential material of District or its students and families which in any way relates to the business of District or its students and families or the services Employee performed for District or its students or families. To receive payment of the Consideration described in Article 3 of this Agreement Employee must disclose passwords to all District devices and/or systems to which Employee had or has access while employed by District.

Article 6
Nondisparagement

Employee will not, at any time, make any statement or engage in any action or conduct that disparages or is derogatory or is in any manner likely to be harmful to the District, its board, directors, officers, employees or agents. No board director, officer or administrator of District will make any statement about Employee which is disparaging or derogatory or in any manner would be likely to be harmful to the Employee but will provide data, pursuant to the Minnesota
Government Data Practices Act, Minn. Stat. Chap. 13, regarding Employee to any third party in the event such data is requested.

Article 7
Full Compensation

Employee understands and agrees that the payments made and other consideration provided by District under this Agreement will fully compensate Employee for and extinguish any and all of the potential claims that Employee is releasing, including without limitation, any and all claims Employee may have for attorneys' fees, costs and disbursements and any and all claims for any type of legal or equitable relief.

DocuSign Envelope ID: A4FD2598-3415-42BB-B693-87 BEB23C9F87

Article 8
No Admission of Wrongdoing

Both Parties understand that this Agreement does not constitute an admission that either
Party has violated any local ordinance, state or federal statute, or principle of common law, or that either Party has engaged in any improper or unlawful conduct or wrongdoing. Neither Party will characterize this Agreement or the payment of any money or other consideration in accordance with this Agreement as an admission that either Party has engaged in any improper or unlawful conduct or wrongdoing.

Article 9
Attorneys' Fees

District and Employee will each pay their own attorneys' fees, if any, incurred in connection with the resolution of Employee's employment with the District, including negotiation and drafting of this Agreement. Each Party will release and forever hold the other harmless from any liability to their attorneys for payment of such fees pursuant to any agreement or understanding between each Party and their attorneys.

Article 10
Authority

Employee represents and warrants that Employee has the authority to enter into this
Agreement, and that no causes of action, claims, or demands released pursuant to this Agreement have been assigned to any person or entity not a party to this Agreement.

Article 11
Voluntary and Knowing Action

Employee acknowledges that Employee has had a full opportunity to consult with an attorney and consider this Agreement and that Employee has not relied upon any statements or representations made by District or its attorneys, written or verbal, other than the statements and representations that are explicitly set forth in this Agreement. Employee has read and understands the terms of this Agreement including the release of claims contained in Article 4 and understands that the release of claims is a full and final release of all claims Employee may have against District and Employee acknowledges that Employee is voluntarily entering into this Agreement with
District. This Agreement will not be interpreted against any Party on the basis that the Party or the Party's attorney drafted any of the provisions.

DocuSign Envelope ID: A4FD2598-3415-42BB-B693-87BEB23C9F87

Article 12
Time to Consider Agreement

Employee understands that they may take twenty one (21) calendar days to decide whether or not to sign this Agreement, which twenty one (21) day period will commence on the day after the date on which Employee first receives this Agreement for review. Employee agrees that if they sign this Agreement before the expiration of the twenty one (21) day period, Employee has decided that no additional time is required to decide whether or not to sign this Agreement.
Employee also acknowledges that any changes made to this Agreement before Employee executes the Agreement, whether such changes are material or immaterial, will not cause the twenty one
(21) day period to commence again.

Article 13
Right to Rescind or Revoke

Employee understands that once this Agreement is executed, Employee has the right to rescind or revoke this Agreement for any reason within seven (7) days calendar days to reinstate federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act claims and within fifteen (15) calendar days to reinstate Minnesota Human Rights Act claims ("Rescission Period"). The two Rescission Periods will run concurrently. Employee understands that this Agreement will not become effective or enforceable unless and until Employee has not rescinded this Agreement and the applicable
Rescission Periods have expired. Employee understands that if Employee wishes to rescind, the rescission must be in writing and hand-delivered or sent via mail within the required rescission period to: Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources, Robbinsdale Area School
District, 4148 Winnetka Avenue North, New Hope, MN 55427. If delivered by mail, the rescission must be postmarked within the required period, properly addressed to Amy O'Hern as set forth above and sent by certified mail, return receipt requested. Employee understands that District will have no obligation under this Agreement in the event Employee revokes or rescinds this
Agreement. After the fifteen (15) day rescission period has passed, the release of Minnesota
Human Rights Act and Age Discrimination in Employment Act claims will be irrevocable. The release of all other claims is irrevocable upon signing. If Employee rescinds this Agreement in accordance with this Article 13, Employee will not receive Consideration described in Article 3
and Employee will be obligated to return any such payment(s) already received.

Article 14
Remedies

Employee agrees that District may seek recovery of the consideration described in Article
3 if Employee violates any of the covenants in this Agreement including, but not limited to the return of all District property. Both Parties may recover all actual damages incurred as a result of either Party's breach of any of the above referenced articles including, but not limited to, attorneys'
fees, costs and expenses incurred in seeking to enforce this article.

DocuSign Envelope ID: A4FD2598-3415-42BB-B693-87BEB23C9F87

Article 15
Entire Agreement

This Agreement constitutes the complete, final and exclusive embodiment of the entire agreement between Employee and District with regard to the subject matter of this Agreement. It is entered into without reliance on any promise or representation, written or verbal, other than those expressly contained in this Agreement. This Agreement contains the full agreement between
Employee and District and supersedes and terminates any and all other written or oral agreements and understandings between the Parties. This Agreement may not be modified except in a writing signed by Employee and a duly authorized officer of District.

Article 16
Successors and Assigns

This Agreement is personal to the Employee and may not be assigned by Employee without the written consent of District. The rights and obligations of this Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of District.

Article 17
Invalidity

In case any one or more of the provisions of the Agreement will be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality, and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained in this Agreement will not in any way be affected of impaired thereby.

Article 18
Applicable Law
This Agreement will be deemed to have been entered into and will be construed and

enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota as applied to contracts made and to be performed entirely within Minnesota.

Article 19
Section Headings

The section and paragraph headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and will not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

DocuSign Envelope ID: A4FD2598-3415-42BB-B693-87BEB23C9F87

Article 20
Counterparts

This Agreement may be executed in two counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original, all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.

Article 21
Gender Neutral

The use of the masculine singular pronoun to refer to Employee in this Agreement will be deemed to include the feminine singular pronoun, whenever applicable.

Article 22
Expiration of Offer

The offer contained in the Agreement will expire twenty one (21) days after receipt of this
Agreement by Employee unless the Parties mutually agree to extend the deadline for signing the
Agreement. After Employee has reviewed this Agreement and obtained whatever advice and counsel Employee considers appropriate regarding it, Employee must evidence Employee's agreement to the provisions set forth in this Agreement by dating and signing the Agreement and keeping a copy for Employee's records. Employee must return the original, executed Agreement to Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources, Robbinsdale Area School District, 4148
Winnetka Avenue North, New Hope, MN 55427 so that Amy O'Hern receives it not later than the time and date described above. Emailing (amy_ohern@rdale.org) the executed document will be sufficient.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Parties have duly authorized and caused this Agreement to be executed as follows:

(Signature Blocks on Next Page)

DocuSign Envelope ID: A4FD2598-3415-42BB-B693-87BEB23C9F87

Employee District

DocuSigned by:

)
[ey Dorf LS.D. No. 281, Robbinsdale Area School
District
Jay Dornfeld
Dated: -
Board Member

RFT

Dated: 2 [2022

Robbinsdale Federation of Teachers

DocuSigned by:

[ pub Eukluoff

By: cop ispiApetici.,
President

1/18/2023
Dated: