To: School Board & Superintendent Engstrom
From: Ukee Dozier - Executive Director of Finance
Date: 2/6/23
Re: 403B Discovery in relation with FY22 Audit
District Deferred Compensation Liability Claim
Discovery
In the spring of 2022, a district employee brought forth claims of matching deferred compensation discrepancies. This prompted HR and Finance staff to confirm claims. In doing so, it revealed clerical errors that affected multiple employees dating back through multiple years.
Magnitude
As it's been determined, there are multiple employees who have been affected by this error. The total number of employees has not been confirmed but we do know that it stretches back multiple years. Because of the investment impact the district was advised to contract an actuary to quantify the potential gains of the missed contributions.
Next Steps
The district has contracted Hildi to conduct the actuarial report to quantify the total liability. The timeline that was provided on 1/20/23 was 2-3 months.
The district has also contracted an attorney in connection with actuary that specializes in employee benefit claims. The attorney will be working with the IRS to ensure proper forms and data are submitted to relieve the district of future claims within the actuarial report period.
Also, a claim has been submitted to our insurance carrier Liberty Mutual under the district E&O insurance. It is currently in claims review.
The district is revising current operations to mitigate clerical errors of this magnitude. This will include identifying and properly training staff responsible for calculation and oversight of deferred comp benefits as well as an annual internal audit review.
Audit
Because of the timing of the discovery, actuarial process and the assumed financial implications, it has been recommended that the annual audit for FY22 be on pause until total deferred liabilities are quantified. If we move forward without this quantified figure the district will be issued a qualified opinion on the audit. This does not bode well for bond ratings at which the district issues year over year for the LTFM 10 year maintenance schedule. Bill Lauer of MMKR will be presenting the FY22 audited financials as is, as well as providing more th detail on the liability from an auditing perspective at the upcoming Feb 6 work session. He will be able to address any questions as they pertain to these two pieces.