ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS - INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 281
FINANCIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL (FAC)
MINUTES FOR JANUARY 17, 2023
DRAFT
FAC Members
X Lennie Kaufman, Chair X April Gulley
Walter Gray X Katherine Lankford
X Greg Kugler, Secretary X Nicole Sandback
O. Barry Rogers
School Board Member
X John Vento, Treasurer
District 281 Staff
X David Engstrom, Superintendent X Ukee Dozier, Executive Director of Finance
X Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance Beth Tomlinson, Controller
X Karylanne Marchand, Business Office Manager
Agenda Item 1: Welcome and Introductions
Chair Lennie Kaufman called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m., with the FAC members and others noted above in attendance. The meeting was held in-person at the Educational Service Center. Mr. Kaufman opened the meeting by welcoming the attendees.
Agenda Item 2: Acceptance of Agenda
The agenda had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was properly made and seconded to accept the distributed agenda as amended. The motion passed unanimously.
Agenda Item 3: Approve November 15, 2022 Meeting Minutes
The minutes had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was properly made and seconded to accept the minutes. The motion passed unanimously.
Agenda Item 4: FY22 Preliminary Audit
Ms. Virginia Verbrugge present the FY22 Preliminary Audit, which was submitted by the District to the
State of Minnesota by November 30, 2022. The final audit is pending and will be presented on January th
24 or after once available.
Other Post Employment Benefits (OPEB) market value of investments declined by $1.8 million in portfolio balance, but remains in a strong position at 178% of funds to liability. FAC members questioned when the next OPEB committee meeting will occur and Mr. Dozier would review and schedule as needed.
Liabilities for missed deferred compensation contributions (which has delayed the completion of the audit) will be disclosed in the current audit. This stems from a self-reported issue where an employee questioned their contribution totals. The district looked at a few years and has since referred the issue

over to an actuary for a 5 year lookback. Resolution of this item could affect the CPA Opinion given to the audit. More information will be provided during MMKR's Final Audit Presentation.
Agenda Item 5: ESSER Update
Mr. Ukee Dozier presented the Elementary and Secondary School Emergency Relief (ESSER) Fund
Update. The District has continued to make best efforts to utilize all the available funds and will continue to do so until the all ESSER programs have sunsetted by September 30, 2024.
Agenda Item 6: Long Term Planning
Mr. Dozier noted that the district is continuing to create assumptions in order to provide a comprehensive district forecast. Enrollment projections continue to decline leading the District to continue to take a conservative approach to budgetary assumptions. Mr. Dozier will continue to provide updates at future FAC meetings.
Agenda Item 7: Future Meetings/FAC Timeline
FAC Members commented on the March and June FAC meeting dates noting conflicts with spring break and graduation ceremonies. FAC recommended that District 281 Staff propose alternate dates.
The currently scheduled meetings for the remainder of the fiscal year are as follows:
• March 14, 2023
• May 15, 2023
• June 5, 2023 (expected to be moved to June 6, upon School Board approval).
Agenda Item 8: Other
Lennie Kaufman questioned if the District was in alignment with other school districts with respects to
Letters Training.
The District noted that Letters Training focusses on the science of reading in grades K-5. In 2018 the
District began to front load the training and was able to utilize ESSER dollars to boost the program implementation. Many other districts have begun to come on board more recently.
No other items were presented for discussion.
Agenda Item 9: Adjourn
After a proper motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting, the meeting was adjourned at
7:57 p.m.
Meeting minutes submitted by Greg Kugler