BELIEVE. BELONG. BECOME.
Welcome to the Robbinsdale School Board
Listening Time
Your input is welcome and valued!
Listening Time provides an opportunity for the school district community to share comments, concerns, questions and ideas with representatives of the school board and the superintendent.
● Listening Time begins at 6 p.m. and ends at or before 6:50 p.m. prior to the second school board meeting of most months.
● The School Board Facilitator allows three minutes per speaker.
● Respectful communication is essential to ensure full understanding of each topic presented.
Procedure for Participation in the Listening Time:
★ Complete the "Speaker Information Form" below. Copies are available online. Forms are accepted electronically until 3 p.m. on the day of Listening Time. After 3 p.m., please fill out a paper form and give it to the Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board, who will create the list of speakers.
★ Topics will be heard in the order the forms are received.
★ Speakers should ensure the information they share is accurate and concise.
★ Per School Board policy: "Personal attacks by anyone addressing the school board are unacceptable. Persistence in such remarks by an individual shall terminate that person's privilege to address the school board." (See School Board 207 AP: Public Hearings, section III. Procedures, under C. Public Participation, Number 5 and Minnesota Statute
13.43.)
★ Speakers are expected to adhere to School Board policy 504 AP: Student Dress and
Appearance, section II. General Statement of Policy.
★ Individual or group time will be no longer than three minutes. In the case of a large number of attendees, the Board will allow two to three spokespersons per topic.
★ The Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board (or a designee) will distribute any documents you would like to share.
★ The School Board facilitator or an administrator will determine if follow-up action is necessary. Please note that inquiries that require further research will receive responses as needed once the information is gathered.
★ Once all those seeking to speak have spoken, the facilitator will announce the opportunity to speak to the audience, and remind everyone of the form completion request. If no other speakers come forward, the facilitator will end the Listening Session and declare it closed.
We appreciate your input.
The Robbinsdale Area Schools Board of Education
March 2022