Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved February 6, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, January 24,2023
beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call
Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,

Sharon Brooks Green, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the agenda, and Director Brooks Green seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento.
And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Arts Showcase
Everyone enjoyed a couple of songs from Adella Jonson, grade 6 and Salina Sanchez, grade 8 - soloists from the

Plymouth Middle School production of "Newsies Jr.," under the direction of Nina Jonson. The show ran January 26-28,
2023.

Sharing the Success
The Board recognized the accomplishments of students from the Cooper and Armstrong debate teams and their

coach, DJ Brynteson, on their successes at the Minnesota State High School League (MSHSL) State Tournament:

e Cooper Senior Connor Brynteson - State Champion of the 2023 Congressional Debate - marking back-to-back wins in this event, and his fourth consecutive trip

e Armstrong Senior Harrison Mantsch joined Connor in the final round of debate and finished 5th overall

e Armstrong Senior Daniella Mints was a semi-finalist in the 2023 Lincoln-Douglas Debate, in her first trip to this tournament

e Connor, Harrison and Daniella all were named All-State Debate based on their season-long performance

e Connor and Daniella both qualified for the national event coming up in June in Phoenix

Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Engstrom recognized the 375 district Educational Assistants and all they do for staff, students and

families during Para Professional Recognition Week from January 23-27, 2023.

Operations
A. Action: Closed Session (Attorney-Client Privilege) - presented by Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair
MOTION: At 7:25 p.m. Director Vento moved recessing into a closed session pursuant to Minnesota statutes, section 13D.05, subdivision 3(b) and the attorney/client privilege - Director Brooks Green seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Durham Transportation Settlement - presented by Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair
MOTION: At 8:37 p.m. upon return from closed session Director Vento moved approval, and Director Brooks
Green seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, and Vento. The following voted against the same: none. The following abstained from voting: Directors Bowman, Holmes and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed with four votes..

C. Action: Resolution Form B1 Grant - MSHSL Foundation - presented by Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities

MOTION: Director Bassett waived reading and moved approval, and Director Long seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks
Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Action: Resolution Form B2 Grant - MSHSL Foundation - presented by Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities
MOTION: Director Bowman waived reading and moved approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks
Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

E. Action: Resolution Accepting Donations - presented by Ukee Dozier, Executive Director of Finance
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval, and Director Brooks Green seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Consent Agenda
Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters. MOTION: Director Vento

moved approval, and Director Long seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Bassett facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Five community members spoke in regards to: Armstrong parking lot issues, academic excellence and curriculum reviews, desire to expand on strategic plan to focus more on academics and achievement, concerts with literature in district schools, a survey regarding transportation facilitate by a community member, the need for teaching vocational and life skills in school curriculum and concerns and documentation follow up requests.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: SYA Date:_2| ul 2025

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281