LETRS Overview
John Groenke, Matt Pletcher, Bridget Hall, Laura
Suckerman, Kari Maryn, Melissa Jackson, Matt
Phelps, Mary Jane Adams
Curriculum and Instruction/Buildings

Language
Essentials for
Teachers of
Reading and
Spelling
"LETRS"

Strategic Plan

Where does LETRS fit in with the
RAS Strategic Plan?

How is this different than what we have done in the past?
● Moved too quickly to print, did not focus enough on the sounds of the language
● Reading experts and curricular materials focused on exposure to various forms of text to teach reading skills and not enough focus on phonemic awareness and phonics instruction
● Phonics and phonemic awareness instruction was focused in
Kindergarten and 1st grade
● Grades 2-5 mostly focused on comprehension and understanding the text

Literacy Instruction in RAS
Shifting in a new direction
Balanced Literacy Structured Literacy
● Reading and writing are
● Explicit, systematic teaching that developed through experience focuses on phonological and exposure awareness, word recognition,
● Focuses on shared reading, phonics and decoding, spelling guided reading, and independent and syntax reading with discussions on
● Focuses on ensuring students content understand the sounds of the
● Phonics, decoding and spelling language before the written may be taught but not symbols systematically and often as an
● Emphasizes that meaning from extra
● Focuses on meaning of text text can not be derived if the
● Assumes that students will reader can not decode the words naturally develop the skills
● Directly teaches students to through repeated exposure and crack the code of the English practice
Language

LETRS Training and
Implementation
Plan

Why LETRS (Language Essentials for Teachers of Reading and Spelling)?
Professional development that provides ALL teachers with an understanding of:
● Scientifically based best practices for instructional routines, activities, and approaches for ALL students
● The relationships among language, reading, and writing
● How to deliver effective instruction through teacher modeling
● How to directly apply LETRS principles and practices to the classroom
● Theory and science behind how reading should be taught
● Not a curriculum, not a set of activities

LETRS in RAS
RAS staff elementary staff are being trained of RAS elementary in Units 1-4 during staff are trained in
2022-23 school year
Units 1-4 as of August
2022
Secondary
Reading, EL and
RAS staff members are
Sped staff are trained LETRS facilitators being trained in and provide training to
Units 1-4 during
RAS staff
2022-23 school year of Elementary Classroom teachers, EL teachers, to train new RAS
teachers of Special teachers before start
Education and Secondary of school year
Reading Teachers trained by August 2023

Being a Facilitator
This will allow us at RAS to provide ongoing training and learning opportunities in a cost effective manner.
Each member of our staff that has become a trained facilitator has:
● Completed each unit in person
● Completed each unit online through Lexia and passed all assessments with 90% proficiency
● Attended 4 days of intensive training through Lexia
● Modeled lessons with a Lexia trainer to show proficiency in knowledge
● Must complete 8 hours of professional learning through Lexia each year to continue as a facilitator
We currently have 8 licensed facilitators in RAS and are developing a plan to train more.

When teaching students to read, we must start with
SPEECH then move to PRINT.
Unit 1

Unit 1: The Challenge of Learning to Read
• The connection between language and literacy.
• What the brain does when a person is reading.
• The skills that support proficient reading.
• How children learn to read and spell.
The Four Part Processing Model

Unit 2: The Speech Sounds of English
● Phonology related to reading and spelling
● How phonological skills develop.
● The importance of phonemic awareness.
● What the consonant and vowel phonemes of the
English language are and how to pronounce them correctly.
● Discusses difference in dialects, accents and allophonic variations in pronunciation (takes cultural and language differences into consideration)

Unit 3: Teaching Beginning Phonics, Word
Recognition and Spelling
• The role of the strands of the Reading Rope in word recognition.
• The role of phonics in reading instruction.
• Instruction sequence: letter names and letter formation; key word for sound-symbol associations; teach correspondences explicitly; use sound-blending routines.
• Word practice and word meaning routines.
• How to teach spelling using dictation.
• Decodable text and when it is important to use.

The Reading Rope
Scarborough (2001)

Unit 4: Advanced Decoding, Spelling and
Word Recognition
• Advanced word study.
• How six syllable types and how should be taught.
• Distinguish syllables from morphemes.
• Suffix rules.
• Relationship between reading fluency and reading comprehension.
• Building word, sentence, and passage reading fluency.
• Aligning practices with scientific evidence.

LETRS for Administrators
A resource and professional development course for building principals, assistant principals and instructional leaders (instructional coaches, MTSS
specialists, teacher leaders) to support the impact of evidence-based early literacy instruction.
● Provides a course to help leaders gain insight to the literacy framework used to create a strong instructional plan
● Helps leaders create efficient methods to analyze student data and establish effective instructional blocks in literacy
● Helps leaders address the needs of teachers who would benefit from deep training on literacy instruction
● Provides guidance on creating an observation and coaching form to use to support teachers in implementing LETRS learning

Implementation Plan
Year Focus
2022-23 ● LETRS review
● Sound Wall Training and Implementation at FOE and MLE
● Sound Wall Training
● Bridge 2 Read at SOE and LVE
● David Kilpatrick Training
2023-2024 ● Principals develop a walk through/ data collection tool to use in classroom observations
● Increased number of trained Facilitators to increase in building learning and coaching in Elementary Schools
● Implement new phonics lesson plan format with specific learning objectives
● Increase use of Bridge 2 Read
● MOU 4 Days LETRS training for those new to position

Secondary Literacy
● RAS employs 14 secondary reading teachers
● All secondary reading teachers are receiving
LETRS training
○ 5 through MDE grant.
○ The rest through district provided
● Plan for Secondary Literacy Specialists to become
LETRS trainers to provide ongoing support
● The Science of Reading informs the instruction students are receiving.

Two different initiatives to support and extend LETRS
learning
Sonnesyn & Lakeview Forest and Meadow Lake
Bridge 2 Read Sound Walls
● Began Professional Learning ● Focused on the science of sound
November 15th and 16th walls, their design, and their
● Goal focused on Phonics Decoding implementation into your daily proficiency phonological awareness and phonics instruction.
● 2 parts of the lesson:
● Teachers received an
○ Sound awareness- 5 min implementation kit with materials
○ Word Study- 30 min to build their own sound wall
● Use of Bridge 2 Read has been central to PLC work ● Teachers receive a resource with
○ Professional Learning directions for explicit instruction of
○ Data Cycles each phoneme
○ Refining instructional ● Teachers receive ongoing coaching and training practices using Bridge 2 Read to increase effectiveness

Sound Walls- The training and materials
● Six-hour fundamentals class is focused on the science of sound walls, their design, and their implementation into your daily phonological awareness and phonics instruction.
● Teachers received an implementation kit with materials to build their own sound wall
● Teachers receive a resource with directions for explicit instruction of each phoneme
● Teachers at Forest and Meadow Lake have received coaching and classroom
Modeling in a kindergarten observations from Sound Wall Specialists classroom at Forest
Elementary by a Sound Wall
Specialist

Bridge 2 Read: Sound Awareness
5 minute Daily Sound Awareness Lesson
Example w/ compound word
Flashlight
● Encoding: flash light
● Substitution: Take away flash & replace it with star
● Deletion: Take away flash, what is left

Bridge 2 Read: Word Study
Example Word Pattern: Silent - e
1. Teach the phonics spelling pattern
2. Practice patterns with words
3. Practice sentences with words with the patterns
4. Partner reading with the text using words with the patterns
5. Dictation: 5 word spelling check of the taught spelling pattern

Additional Word Study Components
Recognizing patterns to read unknown words
Teaching high frequency words
● Words with spelling patterns haven't been taught yet
● Words that don't follow a pattern

Principal Lens- What has the effect of LETRS
and Science of Reading been at your site?
LETRS and the Science of The baseline for our returning
For our building as a whole,
Reading has provided staff readers has moved up, and
LETRS and the Science of their phonemic awareness and at Forest the knowledge to
Reading has brought to light the phonics skill sets are much challenge their current importance of the foundational more consistent. Teachers are practices. It has also skills of phonemic awareness and better able to adjust because developed a common the foundational skills are language to identify what phonics. It has helped us to more solid and predictable, foundational skills need to implement specific instructional and the teachers are better be developed to practices that are effective. In equipped to to make intentionally support addition, it has given teachers of modifications to their students to become a better older students some of the skills instruction.
reader.
they need to ensure that their students have these foundational skills.

Questions

ROBBINSDALE

Strategic Plan

Objectives

ROBBINSDALE

1. Enhance cultural relevance 'Area Schools
2. Enhance an equitable learning
Strategic
Tt A system from early childhood to
-- 3 increases responsiveness to
Achievement : a

individual student needs

college and career

la. implement culturally responsive teaching and culturally relevant instructional resources
2a. ben cpnieee a blended a instructional framework sibabseinchevocioh RAS

= ra sta a
2c. Implement a recast ned middle school model district-wide

[ta bctamiich cl 3 Oo Temm<c That mrortesetiweive aricirece <tiirient mers

4a. increase opportun career experiences

4b. integrate career exploration within the PK-12 curriculum

4c. Define the essential characteristics of the future graduate in collaboration with our community, and align learning opportunities for all students

Objectives

1. improve student-staff

connection ROBBINSDALE
2. increase student access to
Strategic schoolo rtunities, programs
Theme B _ + Proe .
and activities
Student
3. Increase support for student
Engagement

social, emotional, and mental wellness

4. Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety |

and Wellness

1a. Implement a system to ensure every student has a positive relationship with at least one adult at school
1b. identi

4a. Train staff and students on policies regarding protocols on staff and student interactions

ROBBINSDALE

LETRS Training and
Implementation
Plan

The Reading Rope

ROBBINSDALE

'Area Schools

een Many Strands Are Woven into Skilled Reading

Background Knowledge

facts, concepts, etc.

breadth, precision, links, etc.

Language Structures

syntax, semantics, etc.

Verbal Reasoning

inference, metaphor, etc.
Literacy Knowledge print concepts, genres, etc.

Word
Recognition

Phonological Awareness

Skilled Reading

Fluent execution and coordination of language comprehension and word recognition

syllables, phonemes, etc.

alphabetic principle, spelling-sound correspondence

Sight Recognition

of familiar words

Scarborough (2001)

eae ae aay

Questions

SR

rea Schools