More Resilient
Robbinsdale:
Update on Trauma Informed
Practices
Anne Grui, Assistant Director of
Student Services

OUR UNIFIED
DISTRICT VISION
Our mission is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community

Cognitive Behavioral Intervention for Trauma in
Schools
&
Bounce Back

Collaborative Improvement and Innovation
Network-Grant (CoIIN)
● Partnership
● Two-years of Collaboration
● Evidenced Based and
Data Driven
Focused on School Based
Mental Health across the district based on building needs assessment, resource mapping, and gap analysis

● SHAPE was developed by the
National Center for School Mental
What did we find?
Health (NCSMH)to increase the
● Diversification of Mental Health quality and sustainability of
Practitioners comprehensive school mental health
● Resource Mapping for Mental systems.
Health
● Designed for team completion at the
● Communication about Mental school or district level to document
Health Services available within the school mental health system the district.
components, assess the comprehensiveness of a School
Mental Health system, prioritize quality improvement efforts and track improvement over time.

Resource Mapping
Resource mapping is an active, ongoing process to identify, visually represent, and share information about internal and external supports and services; it is used to inform effective use of resources.
In school mental health, resources in schools and the surrounding community can be mapped across a multi-tiered system of support.

Priorities
Across the district 21
Trauma Informed Practices
1
schools used their voice to advocate for
Social Emotional Learning
2
support around these high priority action
School Based Mental Health
3
areas.

Trauma Informed Practices
Identified Needs
● Tier one: Increase in knowledge about trauma and trauma informed practices for school staff.
● Tier two and three:
Increase in support and interventions for students who have experienced trauma.

Trauma Informed Practices: Installation Stage
Tier 2 & 3: School Social Workers will be trained in Cognitive Behavior Intervention for Trauma in Schools (CBITS) and Bounce
Tier 1: Counselors and School
Back
Psychologists will be trained as
The CBITS program is designed for use with groups of students trainers for Trauma Informed Skills who have experienced significant traumatic experiences and are for Educators (TISE)
suffering from related emotional or behavioral problems, particularly symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder.
TISE is designed to teach K-12 teachers about how trauma can affect students and how they can effectively support
Bounce Back is a newer intervention, adapted from CBITS and students after stressful and traumatic experiences.
intended for elementary school children in grades K through 5 who have been exposed to stressful and traumatic events. The focus is
TISE uses a strength-based and relational lens that to impart skills to help them cope with and recover from their highlights students' resilience and promotes school traumatic experiences.
connectedness and belonging

CBITS
Students learn skills in relaxation, challenging upsetting thoughts, and social problem solving, and work on processing memories.
CBITS also includes parent and teacher education sessions. It includes 10
weekly group sessions, 1-3 individual sessions, 2 parent education sessions, and 1 teacher education session.
An implementation plan is currently being written and will be brought forward later this month.

Bounce Back
Bounce Back is a group and individual intervention for young students exposed to trauma. It is designed to help students "bounce back" to wellness by reducing symptoms of traumatic stress. Students learn coping skills, how to identify their feelings, relaxation techniques, problem solving strategies, and work on processing in individual and joint sessions with caregivers.
An implementation plan is currently being written and will be brought forward later this month.

Student Selection
School Social Workers will work with the school administration, MTSS team, families, and utilize data sources such as SAEBRS (Social,Academic, and Emotional
Behavior Risk Screener) to help determine who would be a good fit for the groups.

More Resilient Robbinsdale
More information about the work for a More Resilient
Robbinsdale will be shared at a March Board meeting.

Thank you for your support as we work towards a more resilient Robbinsdale.
Anne Grui, Assistant Director of Student Services anne_grui@rdale.org