ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Special Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*Reviewed May 15, 2023

A Special Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools was held Monday, May 8, 2023. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon Brooks, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, and Caroline
Long; and David Engstrom, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: Director Vento.

Superintendent Topic

A. School Tours Prior to the End of the Year
Superintendent Engstrom provided dates/times for the Board to go in small groups for tours of all of the schools, programs and buildings this spring. After discussion, it was determined that it would be better to do this in the fall.
Some of the Board members preferred to do unstructured visits on their own, while others preferred the idea of structured tours led by the administration. Structured tours will be rescheduled to the fall for those Board members interested in them. Tours of the bus garage and the Education Service Center are of interest to the Board this spring.
Superintendent Engstrom will work to schedule those.

Board Topics
A. Brainstorming: Climate, Culture, Safety, Security - Prioritize
The School Board focused on Climate and Culture. Brainstorming, finding themes, prioritizing themes and determining questions in regard to the themes to be addressed by district administration. The Ad-Hoc Committee will take the notes from this discussion to create a cohesive document to present to Superintendent Engstrom, to help guide this important work with his staff.
B. Ad Hoc Committee Report - Safety and Security
Director Bowman presented the draft of the Ad Hoc Committee report created from the notes from the brainstorming, finding themes, prioritizing themes to be addressed by district administration at the April 11, 2023 Special Work
Session. Afterwards there was discussion, feedback and a request for clarification on the document for
Superintendent Engstrom. The committee will reconvene to update the document to bring back for review at the
Special Work Session on Monday, May 15, 2023.
C. Policy 206: Public Participation in School Board Meetings, Complaints about Persons at School Board Meetings and
Data Privacy Considerations
After a brief discussion, this topic was tabled due to Director Brooks' edits needing to be added to the draft - and
Director Vento not being present for the discussion, as a member of the Policy Committee. The edits will be completed and the draft presented at the Special Work Session on Monday, May 15, 2023.
D. Board Development
1. Homework from Deborah Keys Write - it was determined that everyone should read and complete the assignment.
2. Planning for Summer School Board Development a. Determined unanimously that Friday, July 21 from 6:00-9:00 p.m. and Saturday, July 22 from 9:00 a.m.-
3:00 p.m. will be scheduled for Summer School Board Development. Checking in with Deborah Keys Write to see if she is available for these dates. If not...
b. Office of Collaboration and Dispute Resolution - Director Bowman will look into getting more information from this group.
c. Board of Education Counsel - another option, to educate the Board on how to properly do closed sessions, discuss issues, etc.
E. Superintendent Evaluation - Discussion on Timing and Process
New Board Directors would like to fully understand the process and the tools used for conducting Superintendent
Engstrom's evaluation. It was determined that the Closed Session scheduled for Monday, May 22, 2023 at 8:00 p.m.
originally for this evaluation should be changed to a Special Work Session at 6:00 p.m. to go through this information.
A new date will be determined that evening, for the Closed Session to do the evaluation.
F. Land Acknowledgement

The Board-discussed the Robbinsdale School District Land Acknowledgement that was presented.to.them inthe Work
Session on May 1, 2023. Schools and programs in the district will implement it beginning in the fall with posters in their buildings, and will be provided additional options of their choosing to implement it further. The Board will take some time to reflect on it and see how the district implementation unfolds, before they determine how they will implement it. Superintendent Engstrom will introduce the land acknowledgement in his Superintendent's Report on
Monday, May 15, 2023 in the Business Meeting.

G. Graduation: Board of Education Expectations
The Board received access to a spreadsheet to sign up for the commencements they wish to attend. Directors
Bassett, Brooks and Evans-Becker explained how Board members usually participate in these events to the new
Directors.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board