District Professional Development Intended Outcomes
Fall 2023 - Spring 2026
Intended Outcomes Alignment to Strategic Plan
Building PD Topics
● We will run Cadres (cohorts) through an Instructional ● Theme A: Academic Achievement
Culturally '23-24
Support and Development Coaching (ISD). ○ Enhance cultural relevance of and
● Additional staff will be trained in Culturally and curriculum for students
Linguistically
Linguistically Responsive Teaching.. ■ 1a. Implement culturally
Responsive
● We will anticipate that early adopters utilize CLRT responsive teaching and
Teaching strategies in their classroom. culturally relevant
● Administrators will participate in one-to-one instructional resources mentorship with Dr. Hollie.
● Early adopters will participate in specific CLRT ● Theme A: Academic Achievement
'24-25
workshops: Academic Literacy, Academic Vocabulary, ○ Enhance cultural relevance of
Academic Language and a CLRT Refresh/Booster. curriculum for students
● New implementers will participate in coaching from ■ 1a. Implement culturally
CLRT staff. responsive teaching and
● Primary focus is implementation in the classroom. culturally relevant
● Administrators will participate in leadership instructional resources discussions.
● All licensed staff will have participated in the ● Theme A: Academic Achievement
'25-26
Foundations and Jumpstart training. ○ Enhance cultural relevance of
● All licensed staff will have participated in the CLRT curriculum for students
Binder Study. ■ 1a. Implement culturally
● All licensed staff will have received three coaching responsive teaching and sessions with the CLRT team. culturally relevant
● Early CLRT adopters will receive additional training in instructional resources
Academic Literacy, Academic Vocabulary, Academic
Language.
● Within 3 years, all teachers will utilize CLRT strategies on a daily basis.
● Implement Structured Literacy teaching framework ● Theme A: Academic Achievement
Science of '23-24

with a focus on Phonics and Word Study. ○ Increase responsiveness to
Reading
● Implement and use updated Phonics and Word individual student needs
Study scope and sequence using the LETRS Lesson ■ 2a. Implement a blended
Plan format. learning instructional
● Explicitly teach and practice Phonemic Awareness framework throughout and Phonics skills daily using SOR best practices. RAS
● Use data to drive instructional decisions.
● Provide Science of Reading best practice interventions for students performing below grade level expectations in Phonemic Awareness and
Phonics.
● Implement Structured Literacy teaching framework ● Theme A: Academic Achievement
'24-25
with a focus on Comprehension and Vocabulary ○ Increase responsiveness to
● Explicitly teach and practice comprehension and individual student needs vocabulary acquisition skills using SOR best ■ 2a. Implement a blended practices. learning instructional
● Effectively utilize small group instruction in the framework throughout
Literacy Block. RAS
● Use data to drive instructional decisions.
● Provide SOR best practice interventions for students performing below grade level expectations in
Comprehension and Vocabulary.
● Implement Structured Literacy teaching framework ● Theme A: Academic Achievement
'25-26
with a focus on Writing. ○ Increase responsiveness to
● Continue to implement Structured Literacy teaching individual student needs framework with Phonemic Awareness, Phonics, ■ 2a. Implement a blended
Comprehension and Vocabulary learning instructional framework throughout
RAS
Intensive: Buildings will have individual goals set with LRC. ● Theme B: Student Wellness
Restorative '23-24

Exploratory: Building will gain knowledge of Restorative ○ Improve student-staff
Practices
Practices. connection
○ Increase student access to school opportunities, programs, and activities
○ Increase support for student social, emotional, and mental wellness
○ Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety
Intensive: Buildings will have individual goals set with LRC. ● Theme B: Student Wellness
'24-25
Exploratory: Buildings will implement Restorative Practices. ○ Improve student-staff connection
○ Increase student access to school opportunities, programs, and activities
○ Increase support for student social, emotional, and mental wellness
○ Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety
Intensive: Buildings will have individual goals set with LRC. ● Theme B: Student Wellness
'25-26
Exploratory: Buildings will enter into intensive training and ○ Improve student-staff set building goals. connection
○ Increase student access to school opportunities, programs, and activities
○ Increase support for student social, emotional, and mental wellness

○ Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety
● Elementary Teachers (K-5) will have completed the ● Theme B: Student Wellness
Culture, '23-24
Bullying Prevention Unit Training/Second Step ○ Improve student-staff
Climate, and
Program. connection
Safety
● Site/Campus Administrators will have the ○ Increase student access to opportunity to participate in a STOIC 101 level-set school opportunities, prior to the start of 23-24. programs, and activities
● All classroom teachers will have a classroom ○ Increase support for student management plan accessible to students, families social, emotional, and mental and staff. wellness
● All staff will be trained in Emergency Response ○ Strengthen practices around
Procedures student, staff, and school safety
● All campuses K-8 will participate in Bullying ● Theme B: Student Wellness
'24-25
Prevention Month (Unity Day). ○ Improve student-staff
● All Site Administrators will participate in a STOIC connection
Training. ○ Increase student access to
● All classroom teachers will have participated in a school opportunities, training on "Classroom Expectations" using asset programs, and activities based language ○ Increase support for student
● All staff will be trained in Emergency Response social, emotional, and mental
Procedures wellness
○ Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety
● Select staff will have participated in the Catalyst 12 ● Theme B: Student Wellness
'25-26
Foundational Skills. ○ Improve student-staff
● Select staff will have participated in the 28 Additional connection
Strategies.
● All Site Administrators (Principal/Assistant Principals)

will have participated in STOIC Instructional ○ Increase student access to
Leadership/Coaching Feedback training. school opportunities,
● All Campuses K-12 will participate in Bullying programs, and activities
Prevention Month K-12. ○ Increase support for student
● All staff will be trained in Emergency Response social, emotional, and mental
Procedures wellness
○ Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety
● Introduction year: all classroom teachers will locate ● Theme A: Academic Achievement
Native '23-24
the Native American standards per grade ○ Enhance cultural relevance of
American level/content area. curriculum for students
Standards
● Teachers will begin planning and locating culturally ■ 1a. Implement culturally appropriate supplementary resources to meet the responsive teaching and standards. culturally relevant
● Consultation with the American Indian Parent instructional resources
Advisory Committee and the Indian Education team.
● American Indian Culture and Language classes required K-12. Language and culture tables are acceptable in absence of a licensed language teacher.
● All classroom teachers will review standards and ● Theme A: Academic Achievement
'24-25
align lesson plans to the Native American Standards. ○ Enhance cultural relevance of
● All classroom teachers will compare, contrast, curriculum for students analyze contributions of MN Native American Tribes ■ 1a. Implement culturally by grade levels, and content area. responsive teaching and
● All classroom teachers will review language, culture culturally relevant and the significant and complex history of instructional resources
Indigenous peoples.
● Consultation with the American Indian Parent
Advisory Committee, and the Indian Education team.
● American Indian Culture and Language classes required K-12. Language and culture tables are

acceptable in absence of a licensed language teacher.
● All classroom teachers will be at full implementation ● Theme A: Academic Achievement
'25-26
of the Native American Standards. ○ Enhance cultural relevance of
● Consultation with the American Indian Parent curriculum for students
Advisory Committee, and the Indian Education team. ■ 1a. Implement culturally
● American Indian Culture and Language classes responsive teaching and required K-12. Language and culture tables are culturally relevant acceptable in absence of a licensed language instructional resources teacher.
● All classroom teachers will read and discuss their ● Theme A: Academic Achievement
Math '23-24
grade level standards a minimum of four times and ○ Enhance cultural relevance of
Standards reflect on student access to all those standards and curriculum for students ways to improve exposure. ■ 1a. Implement culturally
● All classroom teachers will review Benchmark responsive teaching and
Achievement Level Descriptors 2-3 times and reflect culturally relevant on student access to standards at a proficient level or instructional resources above, reviewing instructional materials in order to be at the depth and rigor for access to proficiency or above.
● All classroom teachers will read and reflect on the ● Theme A: Academic Achievement
'24-25
standards above and below one grade level that they ○ Enhance cultural relevance of teach. curriculum for students
● All classroom teachers will participate in math ■ 1a. Implement culturally alignment across all grade levels, examining and responsive teaching and understanding standards progression. culturally relevant instructional resources
● All classroom teachers will implement rigorous ● Theme A: Academic Achievement
'25-26
number talks and math discourse with their ○ Enhance cultural relevance of

students using academic math language and curriculum for students effective questioning strategies. ■ 1a. Implement culturally
● All classroom teachers will focus on collaborative responsive teaching and work in math, using a well-chosen set of concrete culturally relevant and semi-concrete representations to support instructional resources students' learning of mathematical concepts and procedures
Intended Outcomes
Modules - '23-24 Alignment to Strategic Plan
Ableism All staff will have a basic understanding of
Ableism and its impact.
● Theme A: Academic Achievement
K-2 FAST All staff will understand how to administer the
○ Increase responsiveness to
FAST Assessments with accuracy and fidelity.
individual student needs
Mandated Reporter/Seizure All staff will understand their role as a mandated reporter and know how to make a report if needed.
All staff will know how to recognize a seizure and how to care for someone experiencing a seizure
● Theme A: Academic Achievement
Blended Learning Teachers will deepen their practice of Blended
○ Increase responsiveness to
Learning and employ best-practice strategies for

individual student needs student achievement.
■ 2a. Implement a blended learning instructional framework throughout RAS
● Theme A: Academic Achievement
Homeless and Highly School Staff will gain knowledge about the
○ Increase responsiveness to
Mobile impact of homelessness on students and how to individual student needs refer for services.
Bullying Prevention Teachers will be prepared and organized to facilitate the Second Step Program Bullying
Prevention Units successfully
Blocksi Teachers in grades 3-12 will know how to use
(Optional for Gr. 3-12) Blocksi as part of their classroom management.
Cybersecurity All staff will have an understanding of cybersecurity and how they can prevent cyber attacks.