5.9.23 Copy of RAS 206: Recommendations in Red
Adopted: Independent School District 281
Revised: Robbinsdale Area Schools
Policy 206 Orig. 2022 Revised 2023
206 PUBLIC COMPLAINTS AND PARTICIPATION IN SCHOOL BOARD
MEETINGS/PROCEEDINGS
I. PURPOSE
A. The school board recognizes the value of participation by the public in deliberations and decisions on school district matters. The school board also recognizes the importance of conducting orderly and efficient proceedings to provide opportunity for expression of all participants' respective views.
B. The purpose of this policy is to provide procedures to assure open and orderly public discussion and complaint mechanisms to include public comments and thoughts while protecting the due process and privacy rights of individuals under the law.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. A role and responsibility of the school board is to encourage discussion by persons on subjects related to the management of the school district at school board meetings or other designated times such as Listening Time or Special meetings. The school board adopts reasonable time, place, and rules for public expression to facilitate free and friendly discussion by all interested parties.
B. The school board shall, as a matter of policy, protect the legal rights to privacy and due process of employees and students. The School Board will, as a matter of policy also protect, the civil and human rights of individuals addressing the
Board.
III. DEFINITIONS
A. "Personnel data" means government data on individuals maintained because the individual is or was an employee or applicant for employment. For purposes of this policy, "employee" includes a volunteer or an independent contractor.
B. Personnel data on current and former employees that is "public" includes: Name;
DRAFT
employee identification number, which must not be the employee's social security number; actual gross salary; salary range; terms and conditions of employment relationship; contract fees; actual gross pension; the value and nature of employer paid fringe benefits; the basis for and the amount of any added remuneration, including expense reimbursement, in addition to salary; bargaining unit; job title; job description; education and training background; previous work experience; date of first and last employment; the existence and status of any complaints or charges against the employee, regardless of whether the complaint or charge
206-1

5.9.23 Copy of RAS 206: Recommendations in Red resulted in a disciplinary action; the final disposition of any disciplinary action as defined in Minn. Stat. § 13.43, Subd. 2(b), together with the specific reasons for the action and data documenting the basis of the action, excluding data that would identify confidential sources who are employees of the public body; the complete terms of any agreement settling any dispute arising out of the employment relationship, including a buyout agreement as defined in Minn. Stat. § 123B.143,
Subd. 2, except that the agreement must include specific reasons for the agreement if it involves the payment of more than $10,000 of public money; work location; work telephone number; badge number; work-related continuing education; honors and awards received; and payroll time sheets or other comparable data that are only used to account for employee's work time for payroll purposes, except to the extent that release of time sheet data would reveal the employee's reasons for the use of sick or other medical leave or other not public data.
C. Personnel data on current and former applicants for employment that is "public"
includes:
Veteran status; relevant test scores; rank on eligible list; job history; education and training; and work availability. Names of applicants shall be private data except when certified as eligible for appointment to a vacancy or when applicants are considered by the appointing authority to be finalists for a position in public employment. For purposes of this subdivision, "finalist" means an individual who is selected to be interviewed by the appointing authority prior to selection.
D. "Educational data" means data maintained by the school district which relates to a student.
E. "Student" means an individual currently or formerly enrolled or registered in the school district, or applicants for enrollment, or individuals who receive shared time services.
F. Data about applicants for appointments to a public body, including a school board, collected by the school district as a result of the applicant's application for appointment to the public body are private data on individuals, except that the following are public: name; city of residence, except where the appointment has a residency requirement that requires the entire address to be public; education and training; employment history; volunteer work; awards and honors; prior government service; any data required to be provided or that is voluntarily
DRAFT
provided in an application to a multimember agency pursuant to Minn. Stat. §
15.0597; and veteran status. Once an individual has been appointed to a public body, the following additional items of data are public: residential address; either a telephone number or electronic mail address where the appointee can be reached, or both at the request of the appointee; the first and last dates of service on the public body; the existence and status of any complaints or charges against an appointee; and, upon completion of an investigation of a complaint or charge against an appointee, the final investigative report unless access to the data would
206-2

5.9.23 Copy of RAS 206: Recommendations in Red jeopardize an active investigation. Any electronic mail address or telephone number provided by a public body for use by an appointee shall be public. An appointee may use an electronic mail address or telephone number provided by the public body as the designated electronic mail address or telephone number at which the appointee can be reached.
G. Data Privacy Rights. School district employees and students have a legal right to privacy related to matters which may come before the school board or at a public input forum as defined in Data Practice 122.
IV. THE PUBLIC'S OPPORTUNITY TO BE HEARD
The school board will strive to give all persons an opportunity to be heard and to have complaints considered and evaluated, within the limits of the law and this policy and subject to reasonable time, place, and manners identified in Section V Procedures. Public input is accepted at public meetings and by email and voice. Among the rights available to the public is the right to access public data as provided by Minn. Stat. § 13.43, Subd. 2
(Public Data).
V. PROCEDURES
A. Complaints
1. Routine complaints about a teacher or other employee should first be directed to that teacher or employee or to the employee's immediate supervisor.
2. If the complaint is against an employee relating to child abuse, discrimination, racial, religious, or sexual harassment, or other activities involving an intimidating atmosphere, the complaint should be directed to the employee's supervisor or other official as designated in the school district policy governing that kind of complaint. In the absence of a designated person, the matter should be referred to the superintendent.
3. Unresolved complaints from Paragraph 1. of this section or problems concerning the school district should be directed to individuals in the following order: building principal, Executive Director for Human
Resources, Assistant Superintendent, and then the superintendent's office.
DRAFT
4. Complaints which are unresolved at the superintendent's level may be brought before the school board. Notify school board via email at school_board@rdale.org provide details and contact information.
206-3

5.9.23 Copy of RAS 206: Recommendations in Red
B. Public Meetings and Agenda Items
1. No Board action at same meeting except as determined by the school board to be necessary or in an emergency, the school board will not act at the same meeting on an item raised by the public.
2. Persons who wish to have a subject discussed at a public-school board meeting are required to fill out a "Speaker Information Form" prior to speaking.
a. Speaker Information Forms are available online at (provide link)
and available at each meeting. The forms are located at the public information table near the room entrance or from the Executive
Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board, look for the signs.
b. Information on the form will include contact name and information, subject matter and name of any group represented.
Information is used for follow up purposes only and kept secure.
However, input provided by individuals at a public meeting is considered public information.
c. In addition, speakers are encouraged to submit their spoken comments in writing. When the speaker has finished talking printed documents are given to the Executive Assistant to the
Superintendent and School Board for submission to the Board.
The information is used for follow up purposes only and is kept secure. However, input provided by individuals at a public meeting is considered public information.
3. Persons addressing the school board on a particular agenda item are asked to identify the subject and/or associated agenda item(s) pertaining to their comments.
4. Speakers will be called on in the order in which their forms are received by the assigned administrator. If a group or organization wishes to address the school board on a topic, the school board reserves the right to require designation of one or more representatives or spokespersons to speak on behalf of the group or organization. Presiding Director may ask if anyone
DRAFT
has anything new to add to the discussion.
5. The school board Chair or seated as Chair will recognize one speaker at a time and will rule out of order other speakers who are not recognized.
Only those speakers recognized by the chair will be allowed to speak.
6. Comments are generally limited to three to five minutes. The presiding
Board Director at their discretion may grant more time. During agenda
206-4

5.9.23 Copy of RAS 206: Recommendations in Red proceedings, attending Board Directors and Administration will listen to comments, if needed, ask clarifying questions, and respond only when appropriate. A Board Director may delegate responsibility to the superintendent or designee to follow up with the speaker. (Does the Board want to establish time parameters?)
7. Behavior expectations. It is expected that adults will behave respectfully to one another during community meetings. If the Chair or seated as Chair is forced to rule people out of order, the proceedings will stop. The Chair or seated as Chair will wait for the order to be restored before proceeding.
8. Matters involving data privacy concerns, preliminary allegations or potentially libelous or slanderous shall not be considered in public but will be processed by the School Board separate from the public proceedings.
9. The school board Chair or seated as Chair will rule out of order any discussion by any person, including school board members, that would violate the provisions of state or federal law, civil or human rights, privacy policies this policy, or the statutory rights of privacy of an individual, including Data Practices 122.
10. Personal attacks by anyone addressing the school board are unacceptable.
Persistence in such remarks by an individual could result in a loss of that person's privilege to address the school board. If speaker is called out of order, the speaker forfeits their speaking time
11. Define the discipline process for Item 10. First offense a warning with 6
months of probation? Three offensives in a 12-month period will result in suspension of speaking privileges for 12 months. What is the discipline for students who make personal (verbal) attacks? Could we model that process?
12. Listening Time lasts for 45 minutes. The school board may limit speaker time (per person) depending on the number of people requesting to speak.
If many people are in the room requesting to speak time will be limited to accommodate all who sign up to speak. Time limits are used to assure many voices will be heard in the predetermined time allotted for input.
C. Open Forum, Listening Time, Special Meetings
DRAFT
1. The school board reserves the right to impose such other limitations and restrictions as necessary in order to provide an orderly, efficient, and fair opportunity for those present to be headed.
2. The school board shall normally provide a specified period when persons may address the school board on any topic, subject to the limitations of this policy. The school board reserves the right to allocate a specific
206-5

5.9.23 Copy of RAS 206: Recommendations in Red period for this purpose and limit time for speakers accordingly.
3. The school board may decide to hold certain types of public meetings where the public will not be invited to address the school board. Possible examples are work sessions and board retreats. The public is entitled to notice of these meetings and will be allowed to attend these meetings, but the public may not be allotted time during the meeting to address the board.
VI. PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF DATA PRIVACY
A. The school district is liable for damages, costs and attorneys' fees, and, in the event of a willful violation, punitive damages for violation of state data privacy laws. (Minn. Stat. § 13.08, Subd. 1)
B. A person who willfully violates data privacy or whose conduct constitutes the knowing unauthorized acquisition of not public data is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Minn. Stat. § 13.09)
C. In the case of an employee, willful violation of the Minnesota data practices law,
Chapter 13, and any rules adopted thereunder, including any action subject to a criminal penalty, constitutes just cause for suspension without pay or dismissal.
(Minn. Stat. § 13.09)
Legal References: Minn. Stat. Ch. 13 (Minnesota Government Data Practices Act)
Minn. Stat. § 13.43 (Personnel Data)
Minn. Stat. § 13.601, Subd. 3 (Applicants for Appointment)
Minn. Stat. § 13D.05 (Meetings Having Data Classified as Public) Open
Meeting Law)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.47, Subd. 5 (Exclusion and Expulsion Procedures;
Closed or Open Meeting)Student Dismissal Hearing)
Minn. Stat. § 122A.33, Subd. 3 (License and Degree Exemption for Head
Coach; Notice of Nonrenewal; Opportunity to Respond) Coaches;
Opportunity to Respond)
Minn. Stat. § 122A.40, Subd. 14 (Employment; Contracts; Termination;
Hearing ProceduresTeacher Discharge Hearing)
Minn. Stat. § 122A.44 (Contracting with Teachers; Substitute Teachers)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.02, Subd. 14 (General Powers of Independent School
Districts; Employees; Contracts for Services)
DRAFT
Minn. Stat. § 123B.143, Subd. 2 (Superintendents; Disclose Past Buyouts or Contract is Void)
Minn. Stat. Ch. 363A (Minnesota Human Rights Act)
Minn. Stat. Ch. 260E § 626.556 (Reporting of Maltreatment of Minors)
20 U.S.C. § 1232g (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act)
Minn. Op. Atty. Gen. 852 (July 14, 2006)
206-6

5.9.23 Copy of RAS 206: Recommendations in Red
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 205 (Open Meetings and Closed Meetings)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 207 (Public Hearings)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 406 (Public and Private Personnel Data)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 515 (Protection and Privacy of Pupil
Records)
MSBA Service Manual, Chapter 13, School Law Bulletin "C"
(Minnesota's Open Meeting Law)
MSBA Service Manual, Chapter 13, School Law Bulletin "I" (School
Records - Privacy - Access to Data)
DRAFT
206-7