Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Approved December 4, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, November 20, 2023, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: httos://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bassett called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bassett asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Bowman moved to accept the agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Arts Showcase: Forest Elementary Steel Drum Residency with Jeremy Kunkel of Pan Outreach

Melissa Jackson, Forest Elementary Principal introduced Sarah Henning, Forest Elementary Music Teacher

Ms. Henning did a presentation in regard to the steel drum residency - fully funded by grants. Ms. Henning spent six months training prior to the residency with Mr. Kunkel. Then Mr. Kunkel spent five weeks working with Forest students kindergarten through 5th grade, teaching the history of steel drums and how to play them.

Sharing the Success: Armstrong High School Senior Lucy Dreyer, National Speech and Debate Association
(NSDA) Academic All-American Award Recipient

Erick Norby, Armstrong High Schoo! Principal introduced DJ Brynteson, Robbinsdale Schools Debate Advisor to introduce Miss Dreyer

The NSDA Acadenic All-American Award is presented to 500 students annually who show academic excellence, leadership, service and integrity in the Debate and Speech community. Lucy is the 12tth Armstrong student to achieve this recognition, and this is the 7th year in a row an Armstrong student has received this honor. Over the past three years, Lucy has been honored numerous times - including NWSC All-Conference, and was a national qualifier in
Debate in 2023.

Sharing the Success: Armstrong High School Supermileage Team

Erick Norby, Armstrong High School Principal introduced Luke Becker, Advisor to introduction of the Supermileage
Team

After qualifying with the number one car built in North and South America last year in Indianapolis, the Armstrong
Supermileage team went to Bangalore, India to compete in the Shell Eco Marathon World Drivers Championship in
October. They returned home as world champions! This competition had students from eleven other institutions from around the world using the skills learned in their engineering and manufacturing programs working on real world problems, and experiencing competition-based learning.

Interim Superintendent's Report

Interim Superintendent Voight thanked Gordy Spielman for 27 years of service to the district. Mr. Spielman will be retiring at the end of January from the district Publications team, where he works as a Print and Video Specialist.
Interim Superintendent Voight celebrated the Annual Fall Music Festival at Orchestra Hall on November 13, 2023, stating it was an amazing evening. She thanked all of our district music staff for their work on the production, along with the guest conductor, G. Phillip Shoutz III, and of course - our student performers! Interim Superintendent Voight also attended the Elementary Orchestra Festival on November 17 - where it was standing room only to see our young musicians. She also thanked Principal Jackson and Ms. Henning from Forest for the presentation in regard to the steel drum residency.

Operations
A. Action: Approval to appoint Interim Assistant Superintendent

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Approval of Policy 509 - Enrollment Options
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Action: Approval of Resolution Accepting October 2023 Donations - $35,000.06
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Non-Action: Human Resources Staffing Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources and Toni Boyden, Director of Student Services
Ms. O'Hern and Ms. Boyden provided a special education staffing update, followed by responding to questions from the School Board.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Vento seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

This month's Board Reports were postponed to Monday, December 4, 2023. Before the Business Meeting, Director
Vento facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Nine community members spoke in regards to:

Districtwide staff notification of incidents and/or lockdowns

School safety

Lack of timely communication with district families and community in regard to incidents

U.S. Flag placement and pledge of allegiance

Attendance of School Board members at Listening Time

District finances, year-to-date reporting

Concerns regarding lack of discipline - potentially causing families to leave district schools

Where can taxpayers find numbers regarding the funds the district receives from open enrolled students attending

e Teaching trades

Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bowman moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: DEP rv 4 Date: ae. ob 2023

Sharon E. Brooks, School Board Clerk, ISD 281