Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved July 21, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, June 20, 2023, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the

meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon Brooks, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Vento moved to accept the agenda, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Director Brooks made a motion to remove items 3.(Registration and travel expenses) and 9. (Special program speakers fees, consulting fees and contracted personnel service fees)
from the Resolution Authorizing Payment of Specific Statements in Advance for 2023-2024 under Operations, Item
5.D. for discussion. Chair Evans-Becker requested that the motion be revisited once we reach Operations Item 5.D.
on the agenda. Upon vote being taken thereon to approve the agenda as posted, the following voted in favor thereof:
Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Arts Showcase - Timothy Guillaume - Armstrong High School (AHS) Student, Pianist and Composer

Timothy Guillaume, along with an ensemble of his peers, performed "Growing Cycle," an original piece he composed especially for this School Board meeting, conducted by Kevin Martin, the AHS Orchestra Director. Timothy is an accomplished, award-winning composer who will begin his junior year at AHS in the fall.

Superintendent's Report

e Superintendent Engstrom noted that tonight's meeting had been postponed from Monday, June 19 due to
Minnesota's first official observation of the Juneteenth holiday.

e Monday, June 5, 2023 commencements for Armstrong, Cooper, Robbinsdale Academy - Highview and
Robbinsdale Virtual Academy were held at the Minneapolis Convention Center. Congratulations to all of our 2023
graduates!

e 2023 Minnesota State High School League (MSHSL) Track and Field Championships yielded the following successes from Armstrong:

o Senior Noah Breker placed 1st in the 3200 meter with a new state all time record of 8:52.44. He also placed
2nd in the 1600 meter event.

© Kendall Thurston placed 8th in discus with an outdoor personal best of 128'3", and placed 10th in shot put with another personal best of 36'7.25"

e Robbinsdale PI Robins placed 2nd in the MSHSL softball tournament vs. Dakota United

e Congratulations to Cooper Senior Connor Brynteson, National Semi-Finalist in Congressional Debate out of 600
students, his best finish in this tournament - and the best finish by any Cooper student in this event. He was also named as Minnesota District Student of the Year, and awarded the Karl E. Mundt medal for excellence

e Congratulations to Armstrong Junior Lucy Dreyer in Extemporaneous Debate for reaching elimination rounds in a field of 1,040 competitors - finishing in the top 300

Operations

A. Action: FY24 Budget and Resolution
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Brooks, Evans-Becker and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman, Holmes and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: District 281 Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Plan
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Brooks,

Evans-Becker and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman, Holmes and Long.
Said motion was declared duly passed.

. Action: District 287 LTFM Plan

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors: Bassett, Bowman,
Evans-Becker, Long and Vento. The following voted against the same: none. And the following abstained from voting: Directors Brooks and Holmes. Said motion was declared duly passed.

. Action: Resolution Authorizing Payment of Specific Statements in Advance for 2023-2024

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Director Brooks requested that items 3. (Registration and travel expenses) and 9. (Special program speakers fees, consulting fees and contracted personnel service fees) be removed for further discussion.
Director Long requested further discussion, since the resolution did not come for non-action first.Director
Bowman requested to also remove item 2. (Contracted transportation invoices) for further discussion. Chair
Evans-Becker asked if it would be amenable to Director Vento and Brooks to vote on the resolution as is to allow for business to continue through September 1, 2023, to allow for discussion in August of 2023 to clarify and discuss at a work session - then vote before the end of August of 2023 on the agreed resolution. Both were amenable. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Basset,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes and Long. And the following voted against the same: Director
Vento. Said motion was declared duly passed through September 1, 2023.

Action: Resolution Authorizing Issuance of General Obligation Facilities Maintenance Bonds, Series 2023A
Director Bassett requested removal of maximum percentage parameter, and trust best judgment. Director
Long requested further discussion, since the resolution did not come for non-action first. Item was tabled for further discussion, and final vote at a Special Business Meeting on Friday, July 21, 2023 - to allow for district to have submission to MDE prior to the July 31, 2023 deadline.

Action: Resolution Designating Brokers for Investment of District Funds for 2023-2024

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.

Said motion was duly passed.

. Action: Resolution Designating Depositories for School District Funds for 2023-2024

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the resolution, Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being take thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

. Action: Approval of May 2023 Donations

MOTION: Director Bowman moved to accept the $54,459.59 in donations to the district, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed.

Non-Action: Human Resources Staffing Update

Amy O'Hern provided the first edition of the permanent agenda addition "Human Resources Staffing Update,"
and was available for questions and discussion.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

Director Bowman requested Item A. Administrative Items 1.a. (Appoint Legal Counsel) and 1.b. (Appoint Financial
Advisor) for further discussion (fresh eyes on them) and separate vote. Director Bassett requested A. Administrative
Item 1.c. (Designation of Newspaper as the Official Publication for RAS) for further discussion and separate vote.
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of going ahead with the vote for the remaining items on the Consent
Agenda as one vote, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

A. Administrative

1.a Appoint Legal Counsel: Director Bowman requested that this topic be discussed by the Board next year in non-action prior to bringing for vote at the last Business Meeting. MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Brooks, Evans-Becker and Vento. And the following voted against the same:Directors Bowman, Holmes and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

1.b. Appoint Financial Advisor: Director Bowman requested that this topic be discussed by the Board next year in non-action prior to bringing for vote at the last Business Meeting. MOTION: Director Vento moved

approval, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Brooks, Evans-Becker and Vento. And the following voted against the same:Directors Bowman, Holmes and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

1.c. Designation of Newspaper as the Official Publication for RAS: Director Bassett requested further discussion in regard to adding additional diverse publications, and researching costs to do so, Director
Vento supported this discussion. MOTION: Director Vento moved approval and waived reading, Director
Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof:
Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento.

B. Personnel Matters
2. Non-Licensed Staff Personnel Report: Director Long requested reason for termination of Service
Employee. Information will be provided to Board confidentially.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Bassett facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Three community members spoke in regards to:

e Policy 206: Public Complaints and Participation in School Board Meetings/Proceedings - with concerns regarding unconstitutional items 10-11, per two U.S. Supreme Court cases - and public officials per the 1st
Amendment cannot suppress free speech

e Transparency, Accountability, Follow through, Consistency - protection of his daughter's education and physical safety

e Community Connect Committee Meetings - disappointment that district excludes community involvement, no community and no connect.

e Commencements outside of district community - why wasn't community involved in the decision to move them?

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bowman moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Fe Prt Date: fad, 22, ARS

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281