Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved October 16, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, October 2, 2023, beginning at 6:00 p.m. at New Hope City Hall in the council chambers. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
httos://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bassett called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services sitting in for Marti Voight, Assistant Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bassett moved to add a Special Report from the School Board Chair to the agenda as the next item of business, and Director Holmes seconded the motion - asking to also add an announcement after the consent agenda.
Chair Bassett moved to approve the amended agenda, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Special Report from the School Board Chair

Helen Bassett, School Board Chair

Chair Bassett outlined the following pressing items that must be prioritized by the Board: superintendent search, potential transportation RFP, referendum planning, ESSER funds, district bargaining units, Baker Tilly discussions.
Some of them were on the agenda for discussion in the Work Session on October 2, 2023.

Operations

A. Action: Preliminary Levy Certification for Taxes Payable in 2024
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. The following abstained from voting: Director
Holmes. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. 'Non-Action: Resolution to Support the Form A Grant Application to the Minnesota State High School League
(MSHSL) Foundation
Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities
Mr. Williams requested approval of the resolution in support of the grant application. The MSHSL Foundation grants support Minnesota high school youth, and help to offset costs for students who qualify for reduced activity fees. In the 2022-2023 school year, 441 students from Armstrong and 513 students from Cooper received reduced fees because of these grants. The resolution will move to action for a vote on Monday,
October 16, 2023.

C. Non-Action: Resolution to Support Hennepin County Youth Activities Grant Application
Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities
Mr. Williams requested approval of the resolution in support of the grant application. These grants are awarded to local government units, including public school districts, to improve youth access to sports and recreational activities. The resolution will move to action for a vote on Monday, October 16, 2023.

D. Non-Action: Human Resources Staffing Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Ms. O'Hern provided the "Human Resources Staffing Update," and was available for questions and discussion.

E. Non-Action: Sandy Hook Promise (SHP) Update
John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services
Mr. Groenke provided an update, stating that the district has received several calls and made responses to them. Student leaders are being identified and will be trained at the October 17, 2023 Leadership
Conference.

F. Non-Action: Policy Update
Governance Policy Committee Members

Director Bowman reported that a two-hour Governance Policy Committee (GPC) meeting was held on
Saturday, September 23, 2023. Work is being done on policies 506: Student Discipline and 509: Enrollment
Options, they will be brought to the Board for feedback soon. Two more GPC meetings have been scheduled for October, and two for November to keep the work moving along.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Vento seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. The following abstained from voting:
Director Bowman. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)

Director Holmes reminded everyone about the Great Rdale Get Together coming up on Saturday, October 7, 2023
from 11:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. at Lakeview Terrace Park in Robbinsdale. A clothing and winter gear drive to benefit school nurse's offices will be collected by the Board at this event. Please consider bringing your contributions to support the needs of students in our schools.

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bowman moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Db noha Date: Onto hoy / b, QAR

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281