ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Special Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed June 6, 2023

A Special Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools was held Monday, May 22, 2023. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon Brooks, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, and Caroline
Long; and David Engstrom, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: Director Vento.

FY24 Preliminary Budget - Third Discussion

Presented by Ukee Dozier, Executive Director of Finance

Mr. Dozier explained the legislation passed bills that are waiting for Governor Walz to sign, and is waiting to update the assumptions until that happens. The biggest change is in compensatory funds provided - 80% to schools, 20% holdback -
resulting in a 60% increase to building budgets overall. A lengthy discussion followed.

District 281 10-Year Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Plan

Presented by Alissa Pier, Interim Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation and Ukee Dozier,
Executive Director of Finance

Ms. Pier presented an outline of the maintenance projects scheduled for this summer and beyond, followed by an opportunity for questions and discussion.

Board Topics presented by Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair
A. Superintendent Evaluation

The process for the superintendent end of year evaluation was explained in detail, and discussed. It was determined that the closed session for this evaluation will be held on Monday, June 26, 2023 beginning at 6:00 p.m.

B. Transportation Priorities
Some of the Board members participated in a tour of the bus garage prior to this Special Work Session. Board discussed timelines in regard to bringing busing back in-house, versus using an outside vendor, versus a blend of the two - as well as the pros and cons of each. They also discussed the possibility of a more environmentally friendly fleet versus gas/diesel. It was determined that perhaps an ad hoc committee or task force should be formed to research/weigh the options to propose to the Board so they can make a decision on how to proceed.

C. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Updated Report
The Board went through the updated Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee updated report, and concluded that they should meet with Superintendent Engstrom to clarify their information requests and questions. A meeting will be scheduled soon to do this, so we can keep moving things forward.

D. Other
There were no other topics brought forth for discussion.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board