To: School Board
Re: SRO Update
School Resource Officer
Purpose: The SRO will provide the followings services at the School:
● Promote the safety and welfare of staff and students.
● Work with the administrators and staff of the school by building relationships with students in the prevention of delinquency.
● The SRO will encourage positive attitudes and supportive behaviors toward school district policies and procedures as well as the law, and demonstrate and model the responsible exercise of authority.
● Actively support school district policy and procedures.
● Maintain awareness of all criminal or delinquency investigations or criminal interrogations being done at the school and, when necessary, provide information to school administration and district leadership. All questioning of the students will be in adherence with district policies and administrative procedures such as AP519.
● Perform investigations of criminal incidents occurring at the school and make proper referrals to law enforcement as serious matters may require.
● Provide input to school administration on matters relating to school building security and occupant safety.
● Participate in community and school efforts to promote positive youth development.
● To the extent possible and consistent with other responsibilities, the SRO will wear appropriate civilian attire while working at the school.
● Perform other duties and assume other responsibilities as may be agreed to between the
City's Chief Law Enforcement Officer and district administration.
● It is required of Independent School District 281 to have any School Resource Officer participate in school diversion efforts, which are in alignment with our District Discipline
Policy.
● For any school code violations identified or witnessed, the SRO will defer the student to the principal's office as disciplining students for code of conduct violations is a School District
Responsibility.
Schools/Police departments/number of School Resource Officers:
Plymouth PD
Armstrong- two
PMS- one
New Hope PD
Cooper- two
Robbinsdale PD
RMS- one

Number of hours SRO work:
Time spent by the SRO in excess of eight (8) hours in a day in the performance of SRO duties at the school will be on a specific, case-by-case basis requiring the advance approval of the City and the School District. The City retains the authority to recall the SRO if the person is needed to respond to an emergency occurring off of school grounds.
Extra support they provide after school:
● School athletics: football and basketball games at Cooper and Armstrong
● School activities: dances
Sandburg Middle School and Golden Valley Pilot Review
The city of Golden Valley did not renew their contract with Robbinsdale Area Schools to staff a
SRO at Sandburg for the 2021-2022 school year. In order to support student safety and well being, the funds that Robbinsdale Area Schools set aside for the SRO were used to support students by providing an additional counselor. The pilot continued during the 2022-2023 school year.
SMS/Highview Staff and Student Input
During the 2022-2023 school year, multiple stakeholders voiced the desire to reintegrate an SRO
back at Sandburg/Highview. Stakeholder input included:
● Staff survey: In May of 2023 staff were surveyed at SMS and Highview. Forty-eight staff members responded to the survey. Forty-four percent (21 staff) strongly agreed with the statement "I support having a School Resource Officer (SRO) in the building next school year" and another 38% (18 staff) agreed with the statement, for a total of 81% being in favor of having a School Resource Officer.
● MN Student Survey 2022: Among students who were aware that the school had a School
Resource Office, more than 90% of eighth grade students in Robbinsdale Area Schools, 92%
of males and 94% of females, responded that they "think it is a good idea to have an SRO or police officer at our school".
Wraparound Services:
Sometimes students/families may have multi-faceted concerns that impact student learning and/or behavior. Redesign has allocated funding across the district for all schools to access additional wraparound supports, as identified and needed. Wraparound is a strengths-based and family-driven approach to service delivery which works to ensure that services within a system of care work together to provide youth with the best possible care. Wraparound services offer holistic care systems that prioritize common goals identified by the child or youth, their family, and care team leadership. This is the first principle of wraparound, "Family Voice and Choice."
Wraparound model being proposed at Sandburg/Highview?
The pilot wraparound model being proposed for Sandburg would include high fidelity components and incorporate evaluation that measures cultural responsiveness and understanding. Redesign proposes working with existing community wraparound coordinators who are working with MN Department of Health Service grants and are charged with including measurements of cultural responsiveness and understanding in all wraparound designed support.

High Fidelity Wraparound Principles include:
● Family Voice and Choice - Driven by youth and their families
● Collaboration of Natural, Community-Based Team - Inclusive of the people who are important in students' lives
● Culturally Competent - Reflective of the youth and family's strengths and culture
● Individualized - every child has varying needs. Development of a personalized care plan
● Strengths Based - Focusing on strengths emphasizes positive psychological frameworks such as hope, positive, purpose, and identity, and improves interpersonal connections among the individual and their team members
● Unconditional - Free from blame and rejection.
● Outcome based - From the onset, the team selects key indicators to define successful outcomes and periodically assesses progress. Regularly monitoring outcomes helps the team evaluate the plan of care and individual strategies, creating natural opportunities for refinement.
Sample SRO Contract