To: School Board & Superintendent
From: Shannon Morris, Q-Comp Coordinator
Date: June 20, 2023 - Consent Agenda
Re: Q-Comp Annual Report
2022-23 Robbinsdale Q-Comp Annual Report
Q-Comp is a school improvement model that focuses on teacher effectiveness and student achievement.
It provides monetary incentives to reward teachers for working toward raising student achievement.
The three components of our plan I am reporting on are: school improvement goals, professional learning communities, and the teacher review process. In addition, I will share findings from our Annual Review that was completed in May.
School Improvement (Site) Goals
● In Robbinsdale we write site goals based on the results of the MCA & Fastbridge assessments.
SMART goals are set using reading or math data from the previous school year.
● Site goals were set in September and sent to MDE October 1st
● The district was notified October 11th that goals were received, reviewed, approved and placed on file.
No further action necessary
● MCA data becomes available August 2023. At that time goal attainment will be reviewed and verified.
Professional Learning Communities (PLCs)
PLCs are collaborative work teachers engage in to improve classroom instruction to increase student achievement.
● PLCs met weekly in person or virtually from September 2022 through May 2023
● PLCs wrote annual SMART goals focused on increasing student achievement. These goals are aligned to building site goals.
● PLC goals are reviewed by administrators at the end of the school year.
● Our PLCs have performance pay tied to PLC participation and goal attainment
● Interview data from our Annual Review conducted in April/May shows:
○ Educators understand purpose, goals, size, composition, meeting time and goal setting in
PLCS.
○ Teachers gave examples of how PLC work impacts instruction and how it connects to classroom practice. Overall there was an increase in references to student data, data cycles, and how data is used in PLC.
■ "By having time in our PLCs, it allowed us to dig into the specific needs of kids and meet them where they are."

■ "PLC gives us time to reflect on our practice and dig deeper into a specific subject area with the team."
■ ""I am more aware of how data should drive my instruction."
Peer Review
All licensed staff are observed/evaluated three times per year. Administrators evaluate all probationary educators. Peer Coaches observe continuing contract staff with the exception of the summative evaluation.
Summative evaluations (also referred to as high cycle evaluations) are conducted by administrators once every three years with continuing contract educators
● The Robbinsdale teacher review process involves three, live, 45 minute observations in addition to a 30
minute pre-conference and 30 minute post conference
● Feedback is provided using the Charlotte Danielson Framework for Teaching
● Educators set professional growth goals. These goals are observed and/or discussed during every observation cycle
● The percentage of educators who were awarded performance pay by meeting proficiency standards is not yet available
● During the Annual Review, educators shared how reflecting on an observation improves classroom practice
○ "Reflective process, thinking about why we do things, outcomes, when we do those things, being more intentional"
In summary, our coaching model continues to focus on supporting teachers to improve instruction. Data from
2022-23 provides insight into student achievement that we can build on. We will continue to modify and adjust our Q-Comp plan as needed. The Q-Comp Annual Review focuses on implementation and compliance to our
Q-Comp plan. It helps identify successes and areas for improvement. All buildings must be reviewed once every four years. The review took place from April 26 to May 10th, and six buildings/programs were involved.
Teams interviewed a variety of PLCs using the scripted protocol provided by MDE. The data from the review will be used to modify and adjust our plan during the 23-24 school year.
Respectfully Submitted,
Shannon Morris
Q-Comp Coordinator eE