To: Board of Education
From: Ukee Dozier, Executive Director of Finance
Date: May 1, 2023
Re: FY22 Audit Update
Background Information:
In the spring of 2022, a Robbinsdale Area Schools district employee brought forth claims of matching deferred compensation discrepancies. This prompted Human Resources and Finance staff to confirm claims. Hildi, the actuary contracted by Robbinsdale Area Schools, confirmed that based on the statute of limitations we are responsible for the last seven years of calculations and missed earnings. The process of calculating the missed earnings is a complicated process of gathering the information and collaborating with the actuary. The
Finance department was required to review all the payroll records for the last seven years to determine who was affected. In doing so, it revealed clerical errors that affected 341 Robbinsdale Area Schools staff.
MMKR presented the FY22 audit to the board of education on February 6, 2023. At that session, MMKR
recommended to pause the FY22 audit until the compensation discrepancies could be identified.
On April 24, 2023 the Minnesota Department of Education sent an email to Superintendent Engtrom and
Executive Director Dozier. MDE was requesting an update on the district's Fiscal Year (FY) external CPA
Financial Audit which was due December 31, 2022.
Status report:
Executive Director Dozier has been in contact with Pam Sanders from MDE multiple times during the month of
April. He has shared with her that we are working with the actuary to review the calculations and missed earnings. The actuary was hopeful that this process would be completed by Friday, April 28, 2023. The total amount will then be given to MMKR, the company conducting the district audit, Friday, April 28, 2023. MMKR
will need to review and audit these numbers, also. This will take a few weeks as the MMKR auditors are busy with city audits. After this our audit will be ready to send to the MDE.
Hildi is not available to present an update to the board of education on May 1, but is willing to present after the conclusion of their findings. MMKR will present the completed audit to the board of education after the submission.