From: Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee
Date: 1.22.2024
Re: Recommendation for School Board Incident
Notification Threshold
Current Process for Board Incident Notification Threshold:
1. Notification comes from Superintendent or Superintendent designee
2. Following incidents may be communicated to the Board if it meets the needs of a level 4 behavior based on the student handbook, the MN Pupil Fair Dismissal Act and/or MN statute:
a. Arson b. Assault c. Possession/Use of a Dangerous Weapon other than a firearm d. Possession/use of a firearm e. Selling drugs or controlled substances f. Sexual assault g. Threats of violence
3. The Board will be informed if Narcan is required to be used on a student by district staff.
4. Allow the Superintendent and building administration to gather all pertinent facts.
The Superintendent may send a general email with more detailed information once the investigation is completed.
5. Debrief Protocol Threshold for Buildings - Building and district administration will formally use the debrief protocol when emergency response is involved (copy provided).
1

Ad Hoc Committee's Recommendation for Board Incident Notification Threshold:
Based on past incidents, feedback from stakeholders via listening hours and board email, press coverage and previous Board work sessions, the Safety & Security Ad Hoc
Committee recommends the following changes/additions to the notification process:
1. Language changed from "may be" to "will be" communicated to the Board;
2. Change to level 3 behavior notification;
3. Administration to provide definitions of "assault," "dangerous weapon," and "sexual assault;"
4. Addition of "any time police are involved in an incident" to list of when the Board is notified;
5. Change from the Superintendent "may send" to "will send" an email with additional details;
6. Follow-up debrief to be provided to the Board within 5 days from incident;
7. Provide Board a written overview of procedural discipline steps taken for administrators/staff deemed lying or falsifying safety information in schools. Board emphasizes need for stepped up consequence to administrators if the incident is not reported and a school board director is the one reporting information to the
Superintendent;
8. Administration to provide an overview of any learning components utilized and under what circumstances ie. PBIS, BARR
a. Outline the levels of staff being tasked with implementing the learning components
9. Incorporate other feedback from work session on 1/22/2024 from Directors;
10. Ad Hoc Committee to meet with Police Chiefs to review their expectations of notifications and effective partnership with the District.
NEXT STEP: Ad Hoc Committee to: 1) discuss revisions to Administration's Debrief
Protocol and 2) review internal & external communication procedures in order to develop A Manual for Schools & the Media During A Campus Crisis.
2