Independent School District 281, Robbinsdale Area Schools
AP 606: Selection of Curricula and Instructional Materials
Updated: January 22, 2024
I. PURPOSE
The Curriculum and Program Review and Development Process was developed in accordance with Minnesota Statute 102B.11 and provides a comprehensive framework to ensure that teachers use evidence-based instructional best practices and the requisite curricular resources and assessments to provide engaging and culturally relevant learning experiences that enable students to gain skills and meet academic standards for career and college readiness. This process explores both modifications to current practices and curricular resources and potential needs for new curricular resources.
The need for an Instructional or Programmatic Review arises when:
● There is a significant change in standards
● Data indicates that the Continuous Improvement Process is not yielding adequate results
● A program/curriculum has not been reviewed in 5-7 years
II. SELECTION PROCESS AND PROCEDURE
To Guarantee that every student has equitable access to the highest quality education, the district is committed to a continuous Curriculum and Education Program Review and
Development Process. The Process shall be research-based and systemic and shall include the collaborative involvement of teachers and administrators, along with input from parents, students, and the community.
III. Stages of the Instructional and Curricular Program Review and Development
Stage Name Purpose
Stage 1 Research and Review To plan and prepare for an upcoming curriculum review by soliciting stakeholder membership, identifying and collecting relevant data, and a shared understanding of the Curriculum Review Process.
Stage 2 Comprehensive Needs To assess the current effectiveness of a
Draft
Assessment/ specific program area by conducting a
Recommendations comprehensive analysis of achievement data, and identifying areas for improvement and curricular resources needed.
Stage 3 Create Plan To examine options for a specific program area, plan professional development, and develop an implementation, coaching, and monitoring plan.
3A: purchasing material 3B: modifying curriculum and/or instructional practices

Stage 4 Plan Implementation To implement a plan for delivering professional learning, organize and distribute materials for implementation, and collect data to evaluate whether revisions are needed. Curriculum and instruction will support this process.
4A: purchasing material 4B: modifying curriculum and/or instructional practices
Stage 5 Monitor/Refine To establish a standard process for large-scale implementation, have ongoing professional learning, and design a data collection system to ensure implementation fidelity.
IV. Reconsideration of Specific Library or Instructional Materials
The Robbinsdale Area Schools' school board adopted Policies 606 and 606.1, under which the school board delegated responsibility for selecting and evaluating library and instructional materials to school district staff. This policy establishes procedures for formal reconsideration of specific library or instructional materials.
A Robbinsdale Area Schools' school district employee, student, or a parent or guardian of a currently enrolled student may request reconsideration of specific library or instructional materials based on appropriateness. Please complete this form to request a formal review of a specific item in the media center's collection
Reconsideration of Specific Library or Instructional Materials
Draft