Minutes of Special Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved August 7, 2023

A Special Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Friday, July 21, 2023, beginning at 5:10 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: httos://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 5:10 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Greta
Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento. Director Bowman called roll as acting School Board
Clerk, since Director Brooks was not present. Director(s) absent: none. David Engstrom, Superintendent, was unable to attend as he was out of office dealing with medical issues. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order. Director Brooks arrived at 5:48 p.m.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Bowman moved to accept the agenda, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Operations
A. Action: Resolution Authorizing Issuance of General Obligation Facilities Maintenance Bonds, Series 2023A
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken theron, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman, Holmes, and Long.
Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Designating Deputy Treasurer
Due to the departure of the District's Executive Director of Finance, it was recommended that Virginia
Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance, be designated as the interim Deputy Treasurer until an Executive
Director of Finance is hired.
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the designation of Ms. Verbrugge to interim Deputy Treasurer, and Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors: Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors: Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Adjournment
MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors: Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes, Long,

and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: SfnadblL- omit 4, 202-2

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281