Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Reviewed XXXX
A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, January 22, 2024 at
8:35 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.
Director(s) present: ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John
Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: Director Bassett.
FY25 Budget Recommendations for Reductions
Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent
Ms. Verbrugge and Ms. Voight presented the proposed recommendations for budget reductions for the remainder of
FY24, and FY25 for discussion with the Board.
Proposed Financial Tool
Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent
Ms. Verbrugge and Ms. Voight shared a draft of the proposed monthly year-to-date revenue/expense report with the
Board, requesting that any questions and feedback be brought back to the Work Session on February 5, 2024. Upon approval of the format, it is recommended that these reports be published in the Consent Agenda for the second meeting of each month.
Board Topic: Ad Hoc Safety and Security Recommendations Review
The Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee members reviewed both the current process threshold and their recommendation for Board incident notification, followed by discussion.
Board Topic: Superintendent Contract
The Board reviewed and discussed the previous superintendent's contract as a starting point to prepare a contract for the new superintendent.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
1