Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Approved May 15, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, May 1, 2023, beginning at 6:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Vice Chair Holmes called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon Brooks, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom, Superintendent. Director(s)
absent: Director Evans-Becker. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Vice Chair Holmes asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same:
none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Operations

A. Non-Action: Human Resources Staffing Update
Amy O'Hern provided the first edition of the permanent agenda addition "Human Resources Staffing Update," and was available for questions and discussion.

Consent Agenda
Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes, Long and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Closed Session

MOTION: Director Bowman moved to recess to a closed session pursuant to Minnesota Statutes 13D.05 subdivisions
2 (4) (b) to discuss as a Board preliminary considerations of allegations, Director Long seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Holmes and Long. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bassett, Brooks and Vento. Said motion failed on a three/three vote.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Fe f yrigl 1 Date: yn ac 1 IS, 20 a =
}

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281