Schools to
Housing
A partnership between Hennepin County and Robbinsdale Area Schools
Presented by Anne Grui,
Assistant Director of Student Services
January 22, 2024
1

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.
2

Agenda
● Schools to Housing Program
○ Hennepin County Navigator
○ Contracted Housing Services
● McKinney Vento Eligibility
● Robbinsdale Area Schools
Homeless/Highly Mobile
Data
● Supports for Robbinsdale
Area Schools Students
3

Schools to Housing Program
The Schools to Housing program is a Hennepin County program developed to "ensure no family homeless".
● Supporting those at risk or experiencing homelessness.
● Focus on prevention and families who are doubled up.
Community Mediation
Hennepin County
Schools to Housing
Restorative
Navigator
Services-Contracted Service
Provider
All district families,
Families will be referred to Community
For families who need help navigating regardless of their child's
Mediated Restorative Services for housing challenges or at risk of losing age, can receive assistance services, when they meet the program their housing.
criteria and are referred by the school from the housing team and the housing navigator.
navigator. 4

Hennepin County Housing Navigator
● Develop partnerships with public schools to identify students/families in need of support to maintain or obtain stable housing
● Target families/youth most in need, focusing on disparities
● Develop a centralized referral and service model for schools to access housing prevention resources
● Increase services and financial assistance to families to prevent homelessness.
● Available to ALL district families.
5

Contracted Service Provider
● Families with a student in Elementary school and in pre-school programming are eligible to be considered for funding.
● Household income: 30% of the Average Median Income of
Hennepin County.
● Referrals will be made through collaboration with
Hennepin County and Robbinsdale Schools.
● Agree to wrap around services for the term of receiving rental assistance.
6

Referral Data
Hennepin County
Community Mediated
Navigator
Restorative Services
Families who have referred
Families who are being to the Housing Navigator: 30
assisted by CMRS: 5
The Hennepin County
The funding is estimated to navigator is estimated to support 25-35 families have the ability to support
350 families.
depending on needs.
7

Grant Award
Robbinsdale Area Schools was awarded two pools of grant funding.
● Funding to support the implementation of the Schools to Housing program in Robbinsdale Area Schools.
○ $40,000 towards a school social worker to support the program and families who qualify as homeless and highly mobile.
● Funding for long-term rental assistance and arrears for families.
○ $210,000 per year for the first two years of the six year grant.
8

Why Robbinsdale?
McKinney-Vento
Children and youth who experience
Eligibility homelessness have the right to receive a free, appropriate public education, ensured by the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Education
Assistance Improvements Act of 2001.
This law requires schools to remove barriers to enrollment, attendance and success for homeless students.
9

McKinney-Vento Eligibility
The services provided under McKinney-Vento provide families the opportunity to maintain education stability for their student(s), which is key to their educational trajectory and success.
One of the priorities of the act is the provision of transportation services to allow students experiencing homelessness to remain in their school of origin, which is defined as the school that the student attended when they first experienced homelessness.
10

McKinney-Vento Eligibility
11

Current Robbinsdale Data
Total 269 Students qualified as McKinney-Vento eligible
Racial Demographic Hispanic: 44
Native American: 2
Asian: 2
Black: 182
Hawaiian/Pacific Islander: 0
White: 12
McKinney-Vento Eligible
Two or more Races: 27
Student Information
2023-2024 Student Data
Primary Nighttime Doubled up: 212
From July 1 to December
Residence Shelter: 23
18, 2023
Unsheltered: 1
Transitional Housing: 6
Hotel/Motel: 27
HHM Information
Unaccompanied 36
Youth
Special Education 51
English Learner 14
12

Why does this year feel different?
Year-to-Date Comparison
October 15, 2022 October 15, 2023
McKinney-Vento Eligible Students 103 210
Student Family Residency Survey 126 181
Transportation Forms 134 243
13

Supports for Students who Qualify as
Homeless and Highly Mobile
Family and student needs are assessed on a yearly basis by the school social workers based on family and student preferences.
● Fare for All ● Home Supplies
○ Cleaning Products
● Good in the Hood Shoe
○ Air Mattresses
Bus
○ Blankets
● Personal Care Supplies
○ Pillows
● School Supplies
○ Towels
● Winter Gear
14

Role of the Schools
● Listen to what students are saying about their living arrangements.
○ Worried about needing to move.
○ Moved suddenly.
○ Talking about their living situation changing quickly.
● Talk to parents about the Housing Navigator
● Refer to the school social worker if you suspect housing instability and possible
McKinney-Vento Eligibility.
● If there is an emergency situation families may contact Hennepin Family Shelter hotline
612-204-8200.
15

Robbinsdale Contact Information
Anne Grui, Assistant Director of Student Services
Anne_Grui@rdale.org
Pam Maile, Student Services Administrative Assistant
Pam_Maile@rdale.org
16

McKinney-Vento Eligibility rane

* Children or youth who lack a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence, including:
¢ Sharing the housing of other persons due to loss of housing, economic hardship, or a similar reason
* Living in motels, hotels, trailer parks, or campgrounds due to the lack of alternative adequate accommodations
* Living in emergency or transitional shelters

¢ Living in places not meant for habitation (e.g., vehicles)

¢ Fixed, Regular, and Adequate
* Fixed: Stationary, permanent, not subject to change
* Regular: Used on a predictable, routine, consistent basis; Consider the relative permanence of the living arrangement

* Adequate: Lawful and reasonably sufficient for meeting physical and psychological needs typically met in a home environment

Can the student go to the same place (fixed) every night (regular) to sleep in a safe and sufficient space (adequate)?