Marsh McLennan Agency
6160 Golden Hills Drive
Minneapolis MN 55416
+1 763 746 8000
MarshMMA.com
April 26, 2023
Ukee Dozier
Executive Director of Finance
4148 Winnetka Avenue N.
New Hope, MN 55427
Dear Mr. Dozier
Marsh McLennan Agency is very proud to partner with Robbinsdale School District #281 for their risk management and property & casualty insurance needs. Minnesota public schools continue to face a number of challenges including budget constraints, staffing shortages, cyber-attacks, bullying, violent events, social media, claims of failure to educate, etc. These challenges are flowing through in the form of more frequent and severe insurance claims, which is putting continued stress on the schools and the school insurance market.
In addition to these liability issues, the property insurance market is especially challenging. The cost to construct or replace school buildings continues to increase and is now above $300 per square foot, and $350-$400 per square foot for a new high school on average. Building costs continue to skyrocket due to the increased costs of materials, labour, inflation and overall construction costs. This has enhanced the shortfall in insurance rating values, compared to the actual building replacement costs. The district has the benefit of very strong and broad coverage which includes full replacement cost with no coinsurance restriction. For these reasons, Liberty
Insurance pushed to increase the insurance rating value base for Robbinsdale Schools up to the full replacement cost for construction in today's dollars, which resulted in an increase of 33% to the overall district property values for this year's proposed renewal offering. This would've resulted in an overall increase of $109,179 to the district's property insurance premium alone. However, we were able to put a plan and agreement in place with Liberty 3
years ago to cap those increases to a maximum of 10% per year through 2023 through our partnership. This plan was instrumental as Marsh McLennan Agency was able to negotiate and reduce Liberty's initial quote offering by
$50,352 this year. Liberty's property insurance values for Robbinsdale schools are well below the benchmark for the rest of the school insurance carrier market which has significantly helped the district manage their overall insurance spend for this year. This is the last year of the stair-stepping agreement with Liberty, so we are already planning to strategically market the insurance to our additional insurance carrier partners in 2024 because our agreed upon cap limit will expire.
Although the property insurance premium is still increasing from $286,308 expiring to $345,135 upon renewal, we were able to keep the majority of the other insurance line premiums relatively flat with the exception of the
Educator's Legal Liability premium (which is increasing for all schools). Included in that, we were extremely pleased that we were able to negotiate a flat renewal for the school's cyber liability insurance with Beazley who is a leading cyber insurance carrier. It is no surprise that the cyber insurance market has also been extremely volatile and challenging as we hear and read about all of the cyber attacks and breaches. Unfortunately, schools have become a huge target as we've seen here in MN with some very recent high-profile breaches in large publicschool districts. As the underwriting requirements continue to become more stringent with the level of required security controls, many districts are having challenges qualifying for dedicated cyber insurance coverage while having to pay more premium for less coverage. Robbinsdale Schools has continued to invest and strengthen their
IT security controls which has been a key component to obtaining dedicated cyber liability insurance coverage at a manageable cost. We are also thrilled to hear about the district's plans to work with a leading IT security firm in this space, which will help manage this risk and control insurance costs going forward.
The overall premium for all lines of insurance is increasing from $603,872, to $684,369 annually, which equates to a 13% overall premium increase.
A business of Marsh McLennan
Marsh & McLennan Agency LLC

Marsh McLennan will continue to work with the district to proactively manage their complex risks while keeping the insurance costs as manageable as possible given the market conditions. Marsh McLennan Agency is the leading broker for public school districts in the state, and the endorsed broker partner for Property & Casualty
Insurance by the Minnesota School Board Association.
We appreciate the continued partnership and look forward to continuing to support and service the district in any way that we can.
Sincerely,
Patrick Truax, AIA
Risk Consultant
Schools & Public Entities
Marsh McLennan Agency
Marsh & McLennan Agency LLC