Summer
Programs
2023

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these
Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Extended School Year (ESY)
Extended School Year: Session 2 (July 10- July 28)
● Federal and state mandated program for eligible students in special education.
● Services designed to maintain the academic social/behavioral, communication, or other skills that they have learned as part of their Individual Education Plan (IEP)
● Eligibility through IEP team due to regression in skills, self-sufficiency (functional skills), or unique circumstances

Extended School Year (ESY)
There were 150 students with disabilities that participated in ESY this year.

Extended School Year (ESY)
ESY Sites for 2023:
● New Hope Learning Center
● Noble Elementary
● Armstrong High School
● Robbinsdale Transition Center

K-5 Targeted Services
Targeted Services offered one 3-week session district wide.
Attendance:
Lakeview Elementary - 246
All students
Northport Elementary - 158
received a free breakfast and lunch
Sonnesyn Elementary - 189
each day in addition to Language Arts,
Math and Social
Emotional
Instruction!

K-5 Targeted
Services
● Teachers and students love the Math 4 Love and Lit Camp curriculum. The opportunities for students to see math and literacy in a different way helps to engage students in learning and teachers enjoy teaching in a different way.
● Targeted Services is an inclusive program where ALL students were really excited to be back with their friends and have opportunities for enrichment.
● Teachers loved the small class sizes that allowed a lot of opportunity to differentiate and teach in small groups
● All students liked being with their peers.

Curricular Resources K-8
K-8 Literacy LitCamp
LitCamp is a breakthrough literacy program that combines innovative lessons with an engaging and interactive summer camp approach. Students will make reading, writing, and social-emotional gains that they'll carry back to school in the fall.
LitCamp is a strengths-based program. Lessons are framed around seven key strengths that build social-emotional learning skills and prepare children for challenges that they will encounter in their educational lives, careers, and communities.
K-8 Mathematics Math for Love
Math for Love is a whole context curricular resource that begins by playing games, puzzles, patterns, shapes, numbers, structures, rules, and ideas. From there, students observe and ask questions.
Owning those question leads to the rest: refinement, searching for solutions, discovering the connections that allow students to not just solve but understand the problem. In addition, students engage in rigorous writing and presentation of their mathematical thinking.

A fun camp setting that encourages students to enjoy literature.
Small groups to support the needs of all students.
Students working together in a literacy rich environment.

Learning math through engaging games.
Students working together to solve problems.
Small group and 1-1
Engaging learning support experiences.
for students.

Special Event:
African Storytelling by
Danielle Daniel

6-8 Targeted Services
Targeted Services offered one 3-week session district wide.
Attendance:
6th-8th Grade: 112 students
All students received a free breakfast and lunch each day in addition to
Language Arts, Math and
Social Emotional
Instruction!

6-8 Targeted Services
● The students enjoyed the curriculum and their teachers. They were excited to be in school and did not want to miss a day.
● The teachers had an opportunity to work with small class sizes that allowed them more opportunities for individual support. This helped them build stronger relationships. The new curriculum was easy for the teachers to use and engaging.
● We saw growth in math and reading skills for each individual student.

Special Event: Taiko
Drumming Performance by
TaikoArts
Midwest

Credit Recovery
Number of
Number of
Students
Credits Earned
Enrolled
Summer 2023
1 Session: 1,016 879
(Session 1)
Session 1: 787
Summer 2022
Session 2: 429
829
(2 Sessions)
Total: 1,216

Credit Recovery
● Edgenuity is very successful and provides
879
individualized access for everyone.
credits
● Intentional staffing allowed opportunities to meet awarded!
students needs immediately.
● Elements of blended learning/modern classroom increased self paced learning.
● Student successes were celebrated by clapping for everyone who completed a credit and playing
Pomp and Circumstance for those that completed all graduation requirements.

Community Education
Summer Academy (located at PMS)
● 430 registrations for the 59 class sections offered in arts, fitness, life skills, social studies and STEM
● 278 students served entering grades K-9
● Popular class options include Summer Music
Academy, Archery, Fencing, Coding & 3D Printing
Summer Explorers (located at LVE and SMS)
● K-5 outdoor recreation and STEM based program
● 521 registrations over seven weeks
● Popular week's were cooking creations, water fun &
nature explorers

Community Education
Swim Program
● Aquatics offers year-round swim lessons with many
District students who serve as instructors
● Aquatics teaches over 1,000 students to swim each year
● Transportation offered for Adventure Club students throughout the summer.

Community Education
Adventure Club: 765 enrollees
The Basement: 134 enrollees
● Increase of 124 registrants from last summer
● Field trips: Science Museum, Stages
Theater, Como Zoo, Pools, Regional
Parks
● Walking trips to community parks and businesses
● Service learning and kid led activities
● Outdoor learning and play
● Theme days such as Little Scientist,
Career Day, Jersey Day, Jeopardy and Tie
Dye Day.

Community Education
Adult Academic Program
● EL & GED Classes offered through June 30 with GED testing and
Career Pathway training offered throughout the remainder of the summer.
● Monday - Thursday daytime, Tuesday & Thursday evenings
● Staff responded to expressed student needs by adjusting some sessions' dates/times
● Adult Driver Education, Childcare Assistant, and Property
Maintenance offered as 'extra classes' in June and July
Overall attendance:
● 300 students participated
● 5,414 total programming hours

Freedom Schools
The CDF Freedom School program provides summer and after-school enrichment through a research based, multicultural curriculum model that supports children and families around high quality academic enrichment
● parent and family involvement
● civic engagement and social action
● intergenerational leadership development
● nutritional health
● mental health

The Learning Model
Harambee:
● Read-A-Loud
● Motivational Song
● Cheers & Chants
● Recognitions
● Moment of Silence
● Announcements

The Learning Model
Integrated Reading Curriculum:
● Strengthen reading skills and prevent summer learning loss
● Project-based learning activities
● Boost scholars' motivation to read
● Maintain and build upon skills learned during the school year
● Increase social emotional learning and academic achievement

Freedom Schools
Robbinsdale American Indian Freedom Schools and
Traditional Freedom School
● Served 125 scholars enrolled in grades K-8
● Afternoon Enrichment Activities
○ African Drumming
○ Minnesota Chill Foundation
○ Native Art
○ Ojibwe Games
● Field Trip Friday
○ Bell Museum
○ Mdewakanton: Dwellers of the Spirit Lake
● National Day of Social Action
● Youth Science Day

College and Career Now!
● This program is a partnership between
Hennepin Technical College, Minneapolis
Community and Technical College, and
Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) to offer college courses to students in RAS.
● During the six week program, students were allowed to take up to 2 classes to earn high school and college credit. Classes were offered virtually and in person this year. Over 80 students participated in the program

College and Career Now Courses
Hennepin Technical College
● Career Exploration
● Race in America
● Introduction to Health Careers
● Medical Terminology
● Intro to Early Childhood Education
Minneapolis College
● Introductory Statistics
● Strategies for College Success
● College Composition

Total Students Served
Robbinsdale Area Schools summer programming served 4,959 students in the summer of 2023.
28

Thank you for your dedication to students and learning!

Summer
Programs

2023

MY ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools