To: School Board
From: Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent and Virginia Verbrugge,
Assistant Director of Finance
Date: February , 2024
Re: Rationale for Hire of Executive Director of Finance
Where we are...
With the recent resignation of our Senior Accountant, and the absence of an Executive
Director of Finance on staff, our Finance department continues to struggle to keep up with all of the functions of the department. We desperately need help to be able to get caught up and keep things running smoothly, especially since we are now also in the budget and staffing season.
The district is currently contracting with two staff from Student Management Systems.
One contractor is focused on developing the FY25 budget, and revising the FY 24 budget and the other contractor is supporting district negotiations.
Where we're going...
This is a cabinet-level position that oversees all financial activities including: budgeting, reporting revenue, and disbursement of funds. This role is also charged with managing risks, and improving financial processes.
The position must ensure that all finances are expended as directed by the District's mission statement, and within the School Board's adopted budget. The Executive
Director of Finance reports to the Superintendent and directly oversees the following programs: payroll, purchasing, financial services. The recommendation is to add additional duties depending on the experience of the individual.
Executive Director of Finance is a cabinet level position. The recommendation is to make the pay commensurate with experience and the consideration of newly added roles and responsibilities. This position would be officially evaluated annually, but would meet with the superintendent to set weekly goals and outcomes.
Where we want to go...
Our recommendation is to post the Executive Director of Finance position immediately.
As we begin budget and staffing for the FY25 school year, filling this position is imperative.
When posting to fill the Senior Accountant position, the recommendation from the
Assistant Director of Finance is to move from a director-level position to a Program
Assistant position, to be aligned to the Assistant Director of Finance like the other existing
Finance positions - allowing for streamlined efficiencies between positions.