Memorandum
To: Robbinsdale Area Schools Board of Education
Assistant Superintendent, Marti Voight
From: Board Chair and Vice Chair
Date: October 3, 2024
Subject: Superintendent Search Plan, Discussion and Update
Recommendations For Board Planning & Action Items Superintendent Search
Phase I
1. Sep 18, 2023Board Meeting - Board Actions a. Acceptance and approval of Superintendent Engstrom's Separation
Agreement b. Assistant Superintendent Voight states she will act as Interim
Superintendent with plans to retire in June 2024
i. Chair - requested prior interim superintendent contract for comparison purposes ii. Interim Superintendent contract will be retroactive to Sep 19, 2023
iii. Agenda Setting September 22, 2023 discussion should assistant superintendent be filled. SUGGESTION: Board reserves the right to hire a temporary assistant superintendent.
2. Timing for Superintendent Search a. Chair Recommends strategy for securing Proposals from Search Firms i. Valerie Milinkovich- RAS Purchasing Director requested to send RFP
documents to chair and vice chair detailing prior boards processes and documents. 9/18.
1. Val noted that she did not have the data and was going to reach out to Molly??
DRAFT
ii. Director Bowman - volunteered to research & vet firms
As the resources come to Chair, Vice Chair or any director. Provide packet of any research to directors as part of Phase II.
3. Board review the overall board budget to support the search and related activities at October 16 work session.

Phase II
● October 3 work session Discussion o Review Board Budget
▪ RFQ/RFP Transportation Specialist Develop Contractor
▪ Hire Search Firm
▪ Professional Dev. Facilitate Board Eval Nov.?
▪ Leatherman survey - Tech Levy other referendums
▪ Schedule Keys Summer Homework for Nov/coincide
● October 16 business meeting consider adjustments to board budget o Board facilitated session on November 18, 2023 with regarding
Superintendent attributes, qualifications, and responsibilities/goals need board vote at October 16 meeting.
● Consider District Fund Balance Target (Budget adjustment implications)
Phase III
● Choose Search Firm by Nov 17, 2023
a. Board facilitated session on November 18, 2023 with regarding
Superintendent attributes, qualifications, and responsibilities/goals need board vote at October 16 meeting.
b. Schedule stakeholder sessions for input on attributes, qualifications and responsibilities/goals. Jan. - March, 2024
i. Factoring Winter and Spring breaks.
4. Target date of February - March 2024 for new Superintendent announcement
DRAFT