To: Board of Education
Re: Professional Development/Travel Expenses
Robbinsdale Area Schools offer staff many opportunities for professional development in a well-established system governed by contracts, and terms and conditions of employment, as well as administrative procedures and state statute. The pertinent language from these contracts has been provided below.
Impact:
There are a few reasons why professional development and travel are either bound by contract or time sensitive:
● The goal is to register for all professional development during early bird pricing.
● If travel is needed we look for the most affordable price and often we book the flights early.
● We are contractually obligated to support the following contract language.
Educational Assistants
5-8-1 Professional Learning
The District will provide up to sixteen (16) hours of Professional Learning during the school year for all Education Assistants. Education Assistants shall be paid at their regular hourly rate. If an Education Assistant wishes to attend a class after school hours, related to his/her position, he/she must first receive approval from the building principal or Program Director and then final approval from the Human Resources Office. If this additional time is approved, Education Assistants shall be paid at their regular hourly rate. These professional learning opportunities are above and beyond the sixteen (16) hours of Professional Learning.
5-8-2 Training
Any Education Assistant who is required to receive training for their job will be paid their normal rate of pay during that training.
5-8-3 Professional Development Incentive
Education Assistants may receive up to $700.00 professional development incentive for completing courses in District approved subject areas. All courses must be pre‐approved by the Human Resources Department. In order to receive the incentive, the Education
Assistant must complete three (3) or more semester credits of college level courses, or fifty
(50) or more hours of seminars/training/staff development in the approved subject areas within two (2) years of receiving approval. The District will fund a maximum of twenty‐five
(25) professional development incentives not to exceed $10,000 total. Reimbursement will be made to Education Assistants on a first come, first served basis. To receive reimbursement an official transcript or certificate of completion/attendance must be submitted, along with proof of payment, to the Human Resources Department.

Nutrition Services
7-6 Training, Conventions and Seminars
The district will pay the following fees or provide reimbursement for Nutrition Services employees. To receive reimbursement, employees must submit their request and required documentation to the Nutrition Services Program Director. Failure to submit the completed applications or necessary paperwork to the Nutrition Services Program Director will result in the employee being solely responsible for the following fees.
● Robbinsdale Nutrition Services has a district-owned membership through the
School Nutrition Association. All employees will be enrolled as a member with the
School Nutrition Association at no cost to the employee.
● Fees for School Nutrition Association certification application.
● Up to $175 toward state or national conference registration per school year. This will be limited to 50% of the Nutrition Services employees on a first come/first served basis or the District may equally distribute the budgeted funds if more than 50%
wish to attend.
● One (1) ServSafe, or other approved food safety courses and one (1) SNA core class within the first six (6) months of employment
● Minnesota Department of Health Food Service Manager's Certificate application and renewal fee for category I, category II, category IV and managers.
Principals
5-6 Conference Attendance
Head principals can request to attend a national conference or comparable conference at reasonable cost every other year. In the alternate year, they can request to attend a state conference or comparable conference. Assistant principals can request to attend a national conference or comparable conference at a reasonable cost every third year. In the alternate years, they can request to attend a state conference or comparable conference.
Program Assistants
11-2 Education/Certification Increase
An employee may earn up to $1,000 additional compensation each year by taking specific additional training. That training must be directly related to the duties of the position held by the employee, at employee's expense. In order to qualify for any additional compensation the training must: A. Be received outside of the work site. B. Be graded or rated by an outside evaluator. C. Be rewarded with some kind of rating, certificate of skill related diploma. All training must be pre-approved by the supervisor and Human
Resources.

Directors
11-2 Professional Development, Continuing Education & Technology Investment
The school district shall make reimbursements for tuition and/or registration expenses for advanced college or certification coursework, which pertains directly to the position.
Reimbursement for technology purchase (not services such as internet in the home) may be made in lieu of coursework reimbursement. The reimbursements shall consist of 100% of the first $1,000 spent, and 50% of the next $3,000 for a total annual maximum of $2,500.
Technology reimbursements shall not exceed $1,000 per year. Expenditures will require pre-approval from 14 the Executive Director to whom the program director reports.
Stipends for technology may not be submitted during the year of planned separation from the district.
11-3 National Conferences
In order to stay current with the issues in their field, Program Directors can request to attend a national conference or comparable conference at a reasonable cost every other year, with supervisor pre-approval.
Teachers
11-2-5 Staff Development
Professional Learning Advisory Committee (PLAC)
The Federation of teachers shall have a majority of the members on the District Staff
Development Committee. The chair of the committee shall be appointed by the Federation
President. This committee shall allocate the district's staff development funds in accordance with the Minnesota Statute and shall approve staff development activities. Staff development committees in each building shall comprise a majority of teachers elected by the teachers in the building. The staff development committee will focus on the District's strategic plan and Unified District Vision and must adopt a staff development plan for improving student achievement.
425 AP: Professional Learning
State Statute
122A.60 Staff Development Program
Subdivision 1.Staff development committee.
(a) A school board must use the revenue authorized in section 122A.61 for:
(1 )teacher development and evaluation plans under section 122A.40, subdivision 8, or
122A.41, subdivision 5;
(2) principal development and evaluation under section 123B.147, subdivision 3;
(3) in-service education programs under section 120B.22, subdivision 2; and
(4) other staff development needs.

(b) The board must establish an advisory staff development committee to develop the plan, assist site professional development teams in developing a site plan consistent with the goals of the plan, and evaluate staff development efforts at the site level. A
majority of the advisory committee and the site professional development team must be teachers representing various grade levels, subject areas, and special education. The
Professional Learning Advisory Committee (PLAC) must also include non teaching staff, parents, and administrators.