ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS - INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 281
FINANCIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL (FAC)
MINUTES FOR May 16, 2023
DRAFT
FAC Members
X Lennie Kaufman, Chair April Gulley
Walter Gray X Katherine Lankford
X Greg Kugler, Secretary Nicole Sandback
O. Barry Rogers
School Board Member
X John Vento, Treasurer
District 281 Staff
X David Engstrom, Superintendent X Ukee Dozier, Executive Director of Finance
X Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance
X Karylanne Marchand, Business Office Manager
Agenda Item 1: Welcome and Introductions
Chair Lennie Kaufman called the meeting to order at 6:37 p.m., with the FAC members and others noted above in attendance. The meeting was held in-person at the Educational Service Center. Mr. Kaufman opened the meeting by welcoming the attendees.
Agenda Item 2: Acceptance of Agenda
The agenda had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was properly made and seconded to accept the distributed agenda as amended. The motion passed unanimously.
Agenda Item 3: Approve March 14, 2023 Meeting Minutes
The minutes had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was properly made and seconded to accept the minutes. The motion passed unanimously.
Agenda Item 4: FY24 Preliminary Budget Presentation
Mr. Ukee Dozier presented the FY24 budget as provided in the meeting materials. The budget was previously presented to the school board. The budget is to be further updated due to the current legislative session.
Agenda Item 5: Five Year Projection Walkthrough
Due to technical difficulties the five year projection was not discussed. Mr. Dozier was requested to provide an update at a future FAC meeting.
Agenda Item 6: 403(b) Update
Ms. Virginia Verbrugge provided an update regarding the deferred compensation claim. Due to the timing of the discovery and actuarial process the audit for FY22 has been delayed. The Minnesota

Department of Education has been made aware of the self-identified issue. Any adjustments to the general fund will be further communicated at a later meeting. An update will be provided in June.
Agenda Item 7: FAC Board Presentation Prep/Questions
Due to the delay in the FY22 Audit and current legislative session the presentation will be moved to a later date.
Agenda Item 8: FAC Timeline
The FAC Board Presentation is to be moved to August 7, 2023.
Agenda Item 9: Other
None. No items were presented.
Agenda Item 10: Adjourn
After a proper motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting, the meeting was adjourned at
8:21 p.m.
Meeting minutes submitted by Greg Kugler