To: Robbinsdale Area Schools Board
From: Helen Bassett, School Board Chair
Date: October 16, 2023
Re: Preliminary Committee Recommendations
Ad Hoc Transportation and Facility/Infrastructure
Committee Report to the School Board
The Transportation and Facility/Infrastructure Ad Hoc Committee met on Thursday, October 5,
2023. Present, Chair Helen Bassett, Treasurer, John Vento, Director Greta Evans-Becker
Staff support: Assistant Superintendent Marti Voight, Transportation Executive Director, Carrie
Johnson, Amy O'Hern, Executive Director, Human Resources
Preliminary Committee recommendations include:
● Development of a comprehensive three-year plan for transportation services
● Consideration of crafting a phased RFP process that contemplates bus garage.
● Renew Durham's contract for the 2024-2025 school year
● Develop the RFP as soon as possible, once Interim Superintendent is retained, then determine the target dates and a timeline to post the publication.
The Committee discussed a staged RFP process related to transportation that also contemplates the inclusion determinations and plans related to the bus garage facility. The bus garage viability directly impacts future transportation decisions for the district, and decision making around leasing or purchase of future buses. We agreed that the planning process should begin sooner rather than later. Consideration having the initial RFP phase focus on a study of the garage facility, indicated a need for an immediate discussion with the board.
The Committee did not recommend a timeframe for going out for an RFP but discussed the development of a phased or staged process and the need for a timeline, and guidance in the next stages of development.
RFP Board Decision Points to contemplate for the FY23 related to facility
Committee recommendations are provided in italics below each point.
DRAFT
1. Considerations associated with the infrastructure, physical plant challenges and solutions associated with the bus garage and implications for future transportation operations.
a. All future decisions regarding leasing or purchase of buses by the district are impacted by the current facility limitations.
2. Securing external professional expertise from the field, ideally with a resource that has the capacity to create an RFP, in conjunction with district administration and transportation

department, sufficient to accommodate transportation and facility planning and project management.
a. The board must determine next steps.
RFP Board Decision Points for the FY23 related to busses and Transportation
1. ● Will we continue to purchase regular education and special education (SPED) buses?
a. No, garage age and 18-24 month lead time
● Will we need to invest in energy storage for the fleet if we pursue renewable energy source?
No, need to evaluate electrical infrastructure
● Bus garage plans and proposed timeline?
b. No
● Length of contract (desired / allowed by law)?
c. 4 years?
● As a district are we ready for more than one company fulfilling the district's request for transportation?
d. We would need to be, based on current market trends.
● Do we make changes to FAIR Pilgrim, FAIR Crystal, RSI or SEA?
e. No
● SPED transportation in house?
f. Discussion, SEIU contract if brought back in house, pay disparity
2. ● Will routing be part of the contract?
a. Yes
Rationale
The District is currently fully staffed and routes are running on time. Neighboring districts around us are struggling to piece together several companies in order to provide transportation for students.
Bringing in a new company would put us in the same place as we were two years ago with a shortage of drivers, canceled routes and a severely compromised bus garage facility.
We need more information about the overall service needs, including the details required to develop a comprehensive RFP, that correctly expresses our needs as a district before we can write an RFP.
Our primary responsibility is to our students and their families- it would be irresponsible and a
DRAFT
disservice to our students and families to purposely disrupt their transportation to school by changing bus companies at this time. We are committed to continuous improvement however!
We acknowledge that families were hurt two years ago. A Durham representative came and apologized to the board and the district for what happened. Reparations were paid to the district by Durham. Since then, a massive effort by Durham to hire and train drivers has us now in a place with all routes staffed and reserve drivers hired and also additional drivers in the pipeline for replacements when needed.