ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Reviewed September 6, 2023

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, August 21, 2023. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. This was the first Work Session recorded. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School
Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento. Director(s) absent: none. Superintendent Engstrom was out on medical leave.

Preliminary Levy Certification

Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance

Ms. Verbrugge provided information regarding what the preliminary levy certification process means, along with the timeline and deadline for submission to the Minnesota Department of Education (MDE). It will be brought as non-action for the September 18, 2023 Business Meeting, and to action for the October 2, 2023 Business Meeting.

School Resource Officers (SRO)

John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services and Bo Powell, Director of Security

Mr. Groenke and Mr. Powell fielded questions in regards to the SRO blanket contract and the contract draft between RAS
and Golden Valley police department - requesting feedback on the two.

Board Topics
Helen Bassett, Schoo! Board Chair
A. Informational One-Page Reports
Informational one-page reports provided by the Cabinet from August 8-18, 2023 were linked and attached to the agenda online. The Board would like all new reports like these to be added to the next Work Session agenda following, so they are available for public view.

Other
A. Contingency Plan - Interim Superintendent
Since Assistant Superintendent Voight has declined moving into the role of interim superintendent, the Board decided to initiate a search. Chair Bassett will compile criteria to provide to the organizations assisting with the search, along with information about the district. Once they receive the candidates, Chair Bassett and Vice Chair
Holmes will vet them, and present the best candidate to the Board for approval.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board