Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved April 17, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, April 4, 2023, beginning at 6:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting

can be found at: httos://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon Brooks Green, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Superintendent Engstrom made a motion to add a Superintendent's Special Recognition to the agenda. Director Vento moved to accept Superintendent
Engstrom's request, and Director Brooks Green seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed. Chair Evans-Becker proposed adding the recognition as Item 3, after Item 2. "Acceptance of Agenda."

Chair Brooks Green made a motion to add discussion to the Work Session in regard to MSBA policies and conferences - and Policy 214: Out-of-State Travel by School Board Members, and Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks
Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed. Chair Evans-Becker proposed adding the discussion under Item 2 of the Work Session agenda, "Board Topics" as Item 2B.

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the amended Business Meeting agenda. MOTION: Director
Bowman moved approval, and Director Brooks Green seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento.
And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Superintendent's Special Recognition
Superintendent Engstrom and Carrie Johnson, Director of Transportation introduced LaShonna Williams, Bus Driver,

who showed bravery and calm in the face of danger to keep our students safe while transporting them to school on
March 24, 2023. Shirrie Jackson, Principal of Robbinsdale Middle School presented her with a gift in appreciation of her actions.

Operations

A. Non-Action: Review of 2023-2024 School Board Meeting Schedule (Draft)
The School Board reviewed the first draft of their meeting schedule for the 2023-2024 school year. After discussion about the schedule, it was recommended that it be brought to action for approval on Monday, April 17,
2023 as a baseline - with an understanding that changes can be proposed, and made as needed.

B. Non-Action: Review of FY23 Mid-Year Budget Revisions
Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance, reviewed the mid-year budget revisions for FY23. Questions and discussion followed. These changes will move to action for approval on Monday, April 17, 2023.

C. Non-Action: Human Resources Staffing Update
Amy O'Hern provided the first edition of the permanent agenda addition "Human Resources Staffing Update," and

was available for questions and discussion.

Consent Agenda
Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Holmes moved pulling Consent Agenda Items 5.B.1. Resolution: Proposal Terminating
Probationary Teachers and 5.B.2. Licensed Staff Personnel Report for separate votes, while going ahead with the vote for the remaining items on the Consent Agenda as one vote. Director Bassett moved to approve the motion,

Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same:
none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the Resolution: Proposal Terminating Probationary Teachers, and
Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman,
Holmes, and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of the Licensed Staff Personnel Report, and Director Long seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman, Holmes, and Long.

Said motion was declared duly passed.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks Green seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: CP sh}rxfy- Date: Lawl 7, 202-3

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281 v