ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Special Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed August 7, 2023

A Special Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, July 24, 2023.
Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

The Work Session was called to order at 6:03 p.m.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long and John Vento. Director(s) absent: none. Other attendee absent: David Engstrom, Superintendent

Board Topics
Presented by Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair
A. Board Governance Policy 1.10 - Board Committees
Board Governance Policy 1.10 - Board Committees was discussed. They determined that all School Board-driven committee meetings need to be posted in BoardBook for public view, and in the district website calendar with date, time and agenda - along with the same information being posted on the corresponding committee page on the website in a timely fashion. These meetings should be followed up with minutes posted to the agenda and on the committee page on the website as soon as possible after the meeting.
School Board-driven Committees include:
o Ad Hoc Committee: Climate and Culture o Ad Hoc Committee: Safety and Security o Community Connect o Finance Advisory Council (FAC)
o Other Post Employment Benefits (OPEB) Advisory o Governance Policy Committee o Legislative Action Coalition (LAC)
All website pages for these committees must be updated in a timely manner with a clear definition of who are members of the committees and their charge/reason for the committees.
B. Land Acknowledgement
The RAS Land Acknowledgement presented to the School Board on Monday, May 1, 2023 was discussed.
The School Board wants clarification of the full implementation plan districtwide by each school. The School Board would also like to see if the district American Indian Parent Advisory Committee (AIPAC) would be willing to participate in a restorative circle to mend the relationship. After that, the School Board will determine how they will implement the RAS Land Acknowledgement in their meetings and/or work.
C. Policy 206: Public Complaints and Participation in School Board Meetings/Proceedings
A draft of Policy 206: Public Complaints and Participation in School Board Meetings/Proceedings was reviewed and discussed, and recommended to move to legal review - after which it will go to the August 7, 2023 Business Meeting as non-action.
D. Transportation Priorities
The School Board discussed and determined their priorities for district transportation moving forward, and provided them to the district administration
E. Recording of Work Sessions
The School Board will be recording work sessions as standard practice beginning on August 7, 2023.
F. Other e Safety and Security - want to make sure all of our buildings are secure e School Resource Officers (SROs) - will be placed on the August 7, 2023 Work Session agenda for an update e Sandy Hook Promise - will be placed on the August 7, 2023 Work Session agenda for an update e Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee - request to meet with a district administrator to discuss the information requests from the School Board

The Work Session adjourned at 9:22 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board