To: School Board
Re: Warehouse
Warehouse History
● District engaged a real estate broker to locate industrial space to meet our needs.
● The lease on our current space was expiring.
● The current warehouse space was too small and couldn't be reconfigured.
● Between January 2022 and October 2023 , the broker identified 110 industrial properties within district boundaries. Of those, eight had space available and only three met district needs.
● We pursued one of the three options, but the owner selected a different tenant that could pay more. We pursued a second option but moved too slowly and lost out on it .
● An off-market parcel became available that met our needs, and the BOE took action to secure the parcel.
Warehouse Stats
● The district previously leased space in three warehouses.
○ The total monthly cost was $29.876.38
○ The total square footage was 32,292 sf
● The new warehouse consolidates all spaces.
○ The total monthly cost is $52,075.42
○ The total square footage is 65,280 sf
○ However, due to county regulations, we are seeking approval of property tax exemption for the space (an opportunity unavailable to us at the previous locations) and our monthly rent would then be approximately $40,530.42
● This means that we will spend $10,654.04 more a month, but more than double our square footage. (32,987 sf additional square feet.)
What is the Warehouse for?
● The new warehouse provided better centralized district services with higher cost efficiency.
● Some examples of this include:
○ Decreases insurance claims due to vehicle vandalism and theft.
○ Prolongs vehicle lifespan by reducing wear and tear from exterior storage.
○ Centralizes district wide furniture and supply storage for more equitable distribution and to make spaces in schools more usable.
○ Reduces cost for Nutrition Services, as more items can be purchased and stored in bulk.
○ Captures need for CTE opportunities for students, increasing retention and enrollment and providing the community with skilled industry professionals.

● Houses our Facilities and Operations trades and maintenance professionals in spaces that are more conducive to their needs and uses.
● We intend to streamline district wide storage of media, supplies, and furnishings.
○ This will allow us to promptly dispose of obsolete materials.
○ This will also allow us to identify items that can be repaired and route them to the proper shops so they can enter back into useful inventory.
○ This also will allow for a more efficient process of equipping our schools with the materials they need to teach best!
Who all will work out of the new warehouse?
● We will house all of our skilled trades professionals in the warehouse.
○ Carpenters
○ Maintenance Crews
○ Grounds Crews
○ Low Voltage Technicians
● Facilities and Operations staff will office from the warehouse., as we work closely across fields with our inner departments in most situations.
● Career Pathway Staff
● Asset Coordinators