ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Reviewed October 16, 2023

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, October 2, 2023 at New
Hope City Hall in the council chambers. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on

our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch
School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services sitting in for Marti Voight, Assistant
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Transportation Update and Overview
Carrie Johnson, Director of Transportation
Ms. Johnson provided an update on routing and staffing for this school year, highlighting the following:
e 83 total bus routes (71 regular education, 12 special education)
70 van routes due to McKinney-Vento students increasing from 95 last year to 177 this year so far
Adjustments including: removing students listed on stops not being used, adding students opting back in
Working with schools to get buses out of their lots efficiently to keep them on schedule
Now the student bus rider level is becoming more consistent, allowing for fine-tuning of routes
91 Durham drivers, 3 district drivers and EAs
4 drivers testing the week of October 2-6
e Continue to hire to be able to cover anything that comes up requiring sub drivers
Ms. Johnson also provided information regarding: RFP/RFQ process, decisions to be made prior to issuing an RFP and options with timelines. Discussion followed.

Superintendent Search
Helen Bassett, School Board Chair
Chair Bassett outlined the superintendent search plan and timeline, and opened it up for discussion.

Board Topics
Helen Bassett, School Board Chair
1. Board Self-Evaluation - discussion was moved to November
2. Homework from Summer Professional Development - discussion was moved to November
3. Board Budget - review overall board budget to support the superintendent search and related activities at the

October 16, 2023 Work Session

New Business/Old Business

1. Bargaining Statute and Board Authority - Negotiations
Caroline Long, Schoo! Board Director
Director Long wants to make sure all of the negotiations meetings for district bargaining groups are open, and have dates, times and locations posted for anyone interested in attending.

2. Letter to the Editor
Kim Holmes, School Board Vice Chair
Discussion regarding Director Evans-Becker's Sun Post editorial in response to other directors' moving Board business to the live meeting on August 21, 2023 via reference to an email sent to the Board - resulting in deposing Chair Evans-Becker, and appointing Director Bassett to return to the Chair role.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board