To: School Board
Re: Personal Device Guidance/Expectations
Background
In April 2023 a group of teachers attended a School Board meeting to share concerns regarding the use of personal devices (which may include, cell phones, smart watches, and airpods) in schools during instructional time.
After the meeting, staff at the middle and high schools met to discuss current building procedures, and to develop recommendations that could be shared with school and district administrators. See feedback below.
Timeline
May:
● School staff met to share feedback and recommendations regarding personal device phone use during instructional time.
● The Policy Committee (a group of School Board Members and district administrators) met.
At the meeting, Marti shared that staff at the middle and high schools would be meeting to identify and create personal device guidelines to share with building administration.
June:
● School staff at the middle and high schools met to review the feedback. This feedback was then shared with school administrators, who developed guidelines and communication around personal device use based on teacher feedback.
Next Steps
● Elementary, middle and high school staff will receive communication August 8th outlining personal device guidelines.
● Middle school and high school students and families will receive communication August
9th outlining personal device guidelines.
● Elementary students and families will receive communication the week of August 14th outlining personal device guidelines.
● Feedback will be gathered from students and families regarding the personal device guidelines. The feedback will be collected via survey in November.
● The feedback from students and families will be shared with the Policy Committee and
Board of Education.
● This fall the Policy Committee will review Policy 524: Internet Acceptable Use and Safety
Policy. The personal device provision is optional in this policy.

Feedback from Middle and High School Teachers Union Representatives
● Teachers have had an extremely hard time with students and their personal technology devices (cell phones and ear buds) interfering with classroom instruction over the past few years. Especially since returning to the classroom after the pandemic.
● We are not looking to take a punitive approach but a supportive one for the success and development of students that we are responsible for.
● Consistency in how cell phones are taken and processed.
○ Don't want battles or power struggles between teachers and students. Power struggles take away management of class, create the need for greater administrative support, and require counselors be involved.
● Safety concerns with teachers physically taking cell phones or collecting them from students.
○ Need more than a 1-2-3 process. Don't want to damage relationships.
○ Teacher should be the observer, and a larger team handles taking them.
● "Away for the Day" policy, and get headphones out of ears. Having a straight policy with consistent language and no gray area, will reduce incidents and it will be easier to identify those students who really have an issue.
○ "Away for the Day" will not work in high school. There are appropriate uses in high school. Ninth grade policy mirror middle school possibly.
○ Ninth graders should follow the middle school model.
● Question is how does this look at each building, understanding the needs of students in each building. Different schools have different cultures.
● What does a policy look like? Different for each grade level?
○ During instruction time-phones are away.
○ Staff must be bought in.
● The building-wide policy needs to be implemented day one and not a quarter into the school year.
● Goal this year is to have it very clear. Guidelines and Expectations
● Social Media policy student or staff specific?
○ This should strictly be discussed
● Want reassurance that once a policy is in place, administrators will follow through with discipline measures as outlined in the building level expectations and rules.
● Need support from administration.