Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Reviewed XXXX
A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Wednesday, September 6, 2023.
Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.
Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Assistant Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. Superintendent Engstrom was out on medical leave.
Interim Superintendent Search Update
Helen Bassett, School Board Chair
After input regarding the desired attributes from all of the Directors, Chair Bassett and Vice Chair Holmes moved forward with contacting the Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) and the Minnesota Association of School
Administrators (MASA) to assist in finding an interim superintendent. They have received good resumes - more than three, less than six. The Board is developing questions and will continue to move through the process. Superintendent
Engstrom's FMLA leave ends September 14, 2023 - the Board is hopeful for more information soon after.
Technology Levy
Dr. Sue Holtz, Director of Technology and Joel Mehring, Assistant Director of Technology
Dr. Holtz and Mr. Mehring provided an overview of the existing technology levy, including a timeline to go for renewal - and future planning to include a new phone system districtwide. Time was provided for Q and A afterwards.
Charge to the Ad Hoc Committee for Transportation and Capital Infrastructure
Helen Bassett, School Board Chair
The draft of the Charge to the Ad Hoc Committee for Transportation and Capital Infrastructure was reviewed, and recommended updates were provided by the Directors. The committee will begin meeting soon to determine the timeline in preparation for going for a transportation RFP.
Board Topics
Helen Bassett, School Board Chair
A. California Association of Black School Educators (CABSE) Conference Presentations
Chair Bassett and Director Brooks provided their presentations in regard to the CABSE conference which they both presented at, and attended in July of 2023.
B. Informational One-Page Reports
Informational one-page reports provided by the Cabinet from August 19-September 3, 2023 were linked and attached to the agenda online. The Board would like all new reports like these to be added to the next Work
Session agenda following, so they are available for public view.
New Business/Old Business
There were no topics presented in this agenda item.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
1