ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved February 20, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, February 5, 2024, beginning at 6:02 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: httos://www.rdale,ora/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Vento moved to accept the agenda, and Chair Bowman seconded the motion. Chair Bowman moved to pull item 4.D. Non-Action: Resolution for
Non-Resident Student Enrollment Capacity Limits from the agenda for discussion at the February 20, 2024 Business
Meeting and/or Work Session, Director Vento seconded the motion, and agreed with voting for the amended agenda.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Special Report - Minnesota Department of Education (MDE) Office of American Indian Education Annual
Compliance

Beth Tepper, Director of Achievement and Integration with Cathy Estrada, Chair of the RAS American Indian Parent
Advisory Committee (AIPAC) and other representatives of RAS AIPAC

Ms. Tepper introduced Ms. Estrada, Chair of the RAS AIPAC. She informed the Board that the RAS AIPAC is pleased with the director RAS is going for native American students, and they voted RAS as concurrent for the 2023-2024
school year.

Operations

A. Action: Use of District Safe School Levy Funds in the amount of $161,978.00 for the Purchase of Security
Items as proposed that the Business Meeting on February 5, 2024
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Non-Action: City of Plymouth Curb Cuts Project
Alissa Pier - Interim Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation, introduced Mike Waltman
- Engineer from Bolton-Menke and Michael Payne from the City of Plymouth. Mr. Waltman and Mr. Payne presented regarding the upcoming 36th Avenue rehabilitation project, which directly impacts Plymouth Middle
School and Armstrong High School. Questions and discussion followed, with a request for final feedback as soon as possible.

C. Non-Action: EduClimber Presentation
Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs introduced Nikki Bodgett and
Jeremy O'Neil from Renaissance Learning. Ms. Bodgett and Mr. O'Neil presented a demonstration and provided information regarding EduClimber, then responded to questions from Board members.

D. Non-Action: Resolution for Non-Resident Student Enrollment Capacity Limits for 2024-2025
This topic was pulled from the agenda, and tabled until February 20 at the Business Meeting and/or Work
Session.

E. Policy Committee Update
Members of the Governance Policy Committee reviewed stated their next meeting would occur Wednesday,
February 7, 2024 at 6:00 p.m.

F. School Safety Update
Members of the Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee reviewed the agenda from the Special Work Session that occurred on Tuesday, January 23, 2024, and stated their next meeting would occur on Wednesday,
February 28, 2024.

G. Student Achievement Update

Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent, reviewed information regarding the Science of Reading - Reading to
Ensure Academic Development (READ) Act - and the impact of it at RAS. She answered questions from
Board members afterwards.

H. Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Update
Members of the Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee are working on scheduling their next meeting.

|. Governance Policy Manual Task Force
Chair Bowman and Director Evans-Becker have been working on completing their review of the 200 series of
Board governance policies, and will be meeting again on February 15, 2024.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Bowman seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Vento seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
8:02 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Lenn Like Date: 2 L202aY

"Br. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, ISD 281