To: School Board
Re: Transportation Weather Procedures
Sometimes Robbinsdale Area Schools may be forced to close school or dismiss early because of extreme temperatures or significant snow. In these cases, the safety and well-being of students and staff is the district's priority.
These kinds of decisions impact every school, program and activity, and it's important to ensure all families, staff and other stakeholders receive accurate and timely information.
Decisions to cancel school because of weather aren't made lightly, and typically happen early in the morning after road and travel conditions are assessed.
Resources
● Publicly available winter weather closing guide and e-learning plan
● Internal protocol for early dismissal communications
● Internal protocol for school cancellation communications
Process and procedures
Twin Cities office of the National Weather Service
The Twin Cities office of the National Weather Service (NWS) is the first to act in the event a weather event could impact school. The NWS will first send out emails with detailed forecasts to school districts and other organizations when there's a chance for extreme weather in Minnesota.
The Superintendent, Director of Transportation, and a member of the communications team receive those emails.
In the days leading up to a storm, the NWS will conduct daily webinars to inform school districts about the scope, impact and risks of the storm. The Superintendent, Director of Transportation and a member of the communications team are invited to those webinars.
The day before an extreme weather event, the NWS will conduct afternoon and evening webinars to provide up-to-the-hour information about the storm and its potential impacts. The morning of a storm, a 4 a.m. webinar takes place. If the storm has begun, information about road and bus stop conditions is provided. If the storm is hours from arrival, the latest forecast information is shared.

Throughout the process, the NWS provides a decision support briefing packet and hourly forecasts for our location, which include snowfall amount probabilities and other information. We can always call them if we need more clarification about a storm.
Winter Weather Collaborative Group
In addition to NWS information and storm guidance, the Director of Transportation participates in a local Winter Weather Collaborative Group of other school district transportation directors to discuss regional plans with regard to a storm. Each time a weather event comes up, we log in and share out what our district is planning to do.
During a storm
During an extreme winter storm, by 4 a.m., district leadership coordinates with our local government partners, such as city public works departments and local law enforcement, to get updates about road conditions.
The Superintendent, Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation, and Director of Transportation will also work with district transportation vendors, metro area school districts, and other local officials to gather information about travel conditions and what students may encounter while walking to school or standing at a bus stop.
In the event the weather is making transportation or the bus stop experience dangerous, by 4:30
a.m. the Superintendent will call a Google meeting to discuss with the cabinet all the information learned to make a closure-decision for the district. This call is scheduled based on the early bus check-in time of 6 a.m. every morning. In the event of a cancellation, a decision must be made no later than 5 a.m., with communications going out no later than 5:30 a.m.
In the event a storm forecast is so extreme to allow for a cancellation announcement the day before, communications must go out by 9 p.m.
Daytime storm
The process is much the same for a potential early dismissal. Decisions must be made no later than 9 a.m. with final communications distributed no later than 10 a.m.