To: Board of Education
Date: August 11, 2023
Re: Reading to Ensure Academic Development (READ) Act
The state legislature seeks to have every child reading at or above grade level every year, beginning in kindergarten, and to support multilingual learners and special education students. It focuses on student mastery of the foundational reading skills of phonemic awareness, phonics, and fluency; and the development of oral language, vocabulary, and reading comprehension skills.
Link to READ ACT: https://education.mn.gov/MDE/dse/READ/
READ Act Requirements District Requirements in Place Impact to the District
2026-2027 The district must District currently has an In January of 2024 MDE will provide evidence-based evidenced based reading share with Districts the reading instruction based on curriculum approved curriculums.
structured literacy.
If the District curriculum is not on the approved MDE list
Districts can
● Appeal and request to continue with the current curriculum.
● Purchase curriculum from the required list provided after the comprehensive curriculum review.
July 2024 Teachers and Elementary teachers, English District will need to:
instructional support staff Language Learning teachers, ● provide continued with responsibility for Secondary Reading and professional learning to teaching reading must be Special Education teachers all complete Science of provided with MDE approved currently receive professional Reading Units 5-8
training starting July 2024. The learning in Science of Reading training must include how to and elements of structured ● continue to provide implement a Structured literacy. onboarding for new
Literacy approach in which teachers in Science of instruction is explicit, Reading systematic, and evidence-based in phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency,

vocabulary, oral language development and comprehension. (Science of
Reading)
Each district must have a The District currently has a District will need to:
Literacy Plan that includes: a) Literacy Plan that includes ● Continue to update this the process of assessing most of these elements document and post on students' foundational already that is currently being the district website.
reading skills, oral language updated by members of the and reading proficiency; b) a Curriculum and Instruction process to notify and involve Department to include newly parents; c) a description of required elements.
evidence-based instructional practices; d) curricular resources and interventions used in the district; e) staff development needs and a plan to meet those needs with data about staff that have completed the approved training; and f) whether the district uses an MTSS
framework.
A new Local Literacy Plan template will be available in
March 2024 with first submission to MDE due in
June 2024.
Each district must screen K-3 RAS screens all students in No change for k-5
students twice a year using a Reading K-5 three times a year tool approved by MDE and (fall, winter and spring). District will need to:
report the results to parents. ● Require teachers to
District will currently have provide documentation suggested parent reports for to parents on screener teachers to give to parents. results.
Each district must submit RAS currently complies with none data on student performance this requirement by in K-3 on foundational reading submitting the required skills to MDE each year by 15th Dyslexia reports to MDE.
of June of each year..

Each district must screen RAS screens all students in District will need to:
students in grades 4 and Reading grades 6-10 twice a ● Grades 6-10 will need to above who have not year (fall and winter). screen students in the demonstrated mastery of spring.
foundational reading skills RAS does not screen grades 11 ● Grades 11 and 12 will and 12 in Reading. need to screen students in Reading in the fall and the spring.
Students in grades K-3 and In grades K-3 most students District will need to:
above who have not that are below grade level ● ensure that all students demonstrated mastery of receive evidence-based below grade level are foundational reading skills instruction, interventions and receiving interventions.
must continue to receive progress monitoring.
evidence-based instruction, ● Train more staff to interventions and progress These interventions are provide interventions so monitoring until the student provided by either classroom that all students below achieves grade-level teachers or support staff. grade level will receive proficiency. the needed
Qualification for intervention intervention.
varies depending on individual school and ● Review current EA
resources available. contract and determine additional days of professional development.
Students in grades 4 and In grades 4-5 most students District will need to:
above who have not that are below grade level ● ensure that all students demonstrated mastery of receive evidence-based below grade level are foundational reading skills instruction, interventions and receiving interventions.
must continue to receive progress monitoring.
evidence-based instruction, ● more staff trained to interventions and progress These interventions are provide interventions so monitoring until the student provided by either classroom that all students below achieves grade-level teachers or support staff. grade level will receive proficiency. the needed
Qualification for intervention intervention.
varies depending on individual school and ● Review current EA
resources available. contract and determine additional days of
In grades 6-8 most students professional that are below grade level development.
receive evidence-based

instruction, interventions and progress monitoring.
In grades 9-12 some students that are below grade level receive evidence-based instruction, interventions and progress monitoring.
Each district must use We currently use two None expected unless these evidence-based curriculum curricular resources for resources are not on the list of and intervention materials at intervention that are aligned approved resources by MDE.
each grade level. with Science of Reading.
PRESS and FASTBridge
Interventions
Each district must employ a Currently in place, we have a none literacy lead by August 2025. K-5 Literacy Coordinator and a
6-12 Literacy Coordinator
Each district should adopt an The district currently has an none
MTSS framework. MTSS framework in place.
Each district should provide a This varies by individual school The District will need to:
personal learning plan for site ● Create a consistent students that do not personal learning plan demonstrate grade level to be used across RAS.
proficiency.