Independent School District 281 Procedure 506
Robbinsdale Area Schools
506 STUDENT DISCIPLINE PROCEDURE
I. PURPOSE
A safe and positive environment is essential for learning. Knowing and following expectations and procedures will support students in making positive choices and academic progress. When students engage in behaviors that do not follow their school's expectations, school staff members are expected to respond promptly, appropriately and consistently.
Students, their parents/guardians, and school staff are responsible for working collaboratively to support the expectations and procedures outlined in this Procedure and the Student
Handbook.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF PROCEDURE
All students are entitled to learn and develop in a setting which promotes respect of self, others, and property. Positive discipline provides options and stresses student self-direction, decision-making, and responsibility. Proper student conduct is necessary to facilitate the education process and to create an atmosphere conducive to high student achievement.
Although this procedure emphasizes the development of self-discipline, there are instances when it is necessary to administer corrective action and/or disciplinary measures. The school district is committed to the implementation of an equitable district-wide student discipline procedure. This discipline procedure was written in accordance with and is subject to the
Minnesota Pupil Fair Dismissal Act, Minnesota Statutes Sections 121A.40-121A.56.
In keeping with Policy 506, the following factors must be considered prior to the development of interventions, deciding upon corrective actions, and/or administering disciplinary responses to student conduct:
1
● The consistency and equity of responses to similar behavior by similarly-situated students ;
● The student's age, maturity and understanding of the impact of the behavior;
● The student's ability to repair harm caused by the behavior;
● The student's willingness to repair harm caused by the behavior;
● The student's disciplinary record including the nature of prior behavior, the number of prior instances of behavior, and the interventions and disciplinary response applied;
● The nature, severity, and scope of the behavior;
● The circumstances and context in which the behavior occurred, including its impact on the learning environment;
● The student's individualized Education Plan (IEP) or 504 plan, if applicable.
III. DEFINITIONS
A. "Non Exclusionary disciplinary policies and practices" are alternatives to dismissing a student from school including, but not limited to, evidence-based positive behavior interventions and supports, social and emotional services, school-linked mental health services, counseling services, social work services, academic screening for Title 1 services
1
Whether one student is similarly-situated to another is determined by whether, and to what extent, they share the other factors listed.
1

2
or reading interventions, and alternative education services.
B. "Pupil" or "Student" withdrawal agreement" means a verbal or written agreement between a school administrator or district administrator and a student's parent/guardian to withdraw a student from the school district to avoid expulsion or exclusion dismissal proceedings.
The withdrawal agreement must not exceed 12-months in duration.
C. "Removal from class" and "removal" mean any actions taken by a school district employee to prohibit a student from attending a class or activity for a period of time not to exceed five (5) days. Only school district administrators, in collaboration with the classroom teacher, have the authority to remove a student from class.
D. "Recess detention" means excluding or excessively delaying a student from participating in a scheduled recess period as a consequence for student behavior. Recess detention does not include, among other things, providing alternative recess at the student's choice.
E. "Assault" is an act done with intent to cause fear in another of immediate bodily harm or death; or the intentional infliction of, or attempt to inflict, bodily harm upon another.
F. "Suspension" means an action by the school administration, under rules promulgated by the School Board, prohibiting a student from attending school for a period of no more than ten (10) school days; provided, however, if a suspension is longer than five (5) school days, the suspending administrator shall provide the superintendent with a reason for the longer term of suspension. This definition does not apply to dismissal for one (1) school day or less where a student with a disability does not receive regular or special education instruction during that dismissal period.
G. "Expulsion" means a school board action to prohibit an enrolled student from further attendance for up to twelve (12) months from the date the student is expelled. The authority to expel rests with the school board.
H. "Exclusion" means an action taken by the school board to prevent enrollment or re-enrollment of a student for a period that shall not extend beyond the school year. The authority to exclude rests with the school board.
IV. STUDENT RIGHTS
A. Students have the right to a free public education.
B. Students have the right to attend school and gain an education as provided by law.
C. Students have the right to attend school in a safe environment that is free from disruptive behavior by others. Students have the right to experience learning opportunities that reflect their cultural experiences in a non-racist, non-sex-biased, and gender and disability fair manner.
V. STUDENT RESPONSIBILITIES
All students have the responsibility:
A. To behave in such a manner that supports learning for all, does not pose a potential or actual danger to themselves or others, and is not disruptive to the learning process for
2
Nonexclusionary disciplinary policies and practices include, but are not limited to, the policies and practices under sections 120B.12; 121A.575, clauses (1) and (2); 121A.031, subdivision 4, paragraph (a), clause (1); 121A.61, subdivision 3, paragraph (r); and 122A.627, clause (3).
2

others; and for knowing all school rules, regulations, policies, and procedures, as well as federal, state, and local laws, and conducting themselves in accordance with them.
B. To attend school daily, except when excused, and to be on time to all classes and other required school functions;
C. To pursue and attempt to complete the courses of study prescribed by the State and local school authorities;
D. To make necessary arrangements for making up work when absent from school;
E. To assist school staff in maintaining safe learning and working environments;
F. To assume that unless and until a rule or policy is waived, altered, or repealed, it is in full force and effect;
G. To provide any information they have about unsafe situations or actions, including in disciplinary cases, to school staff or building leaders as soon as possible and to cooperate with school employees as appropriate;
H. To respect and maintain the school's property and the property of others;
I. Students have the right to choose their manner of dress and personal grooming unless it:
presents a clear danger to the student's or another's health or safety; causes an interference with school work; or creates classroom disruption. Student dress cannot be obscene, sexually explicit, or discriminatory. Clothing that displays words or images that communicate a message that is racist, sexist, or otherwise derogatory to a protected class, or contains references to alcohol, chemicals, tobacco, or other products that are illegal for use by minors, is not permitted.
J. To recognize and respect the rights of others.
VI. CODE OF STUDENT CONDUCT
A. The following are examples of unacceptable behavior subject to disciplinary action by the school district. These examples are not intended to be an exclusive list. Any student who engages in any of these activities may be disciplined in accordance with this procedure.
This procedure applies to all school buildings, school grounds, and school property or property immediately adjacent to school grounds; school-sponsored activities or trips; school bus stops; school buses, school vehicles, school contracted vehicles, or any other vehicles approved for school district purposes; the area of entrance or departure from school premises or events; and all school-related functions, school-sponsored activities, events, or trips. School district property also may mean a student's walking route to or from school for purposes of attending school or school-related functions, activities, or events. While prohibiting unacceptable behavior subject to disciplinary action at these locations and events, the school district does not represent that it will provide supervision or assume liability at these locations and events. This procedure also applies to any student whose conduct at any time or in any place interferes with or obstructs the mission or operations of the school district or the safety or welfare of the student, other students, or employees.
1. Violations against property including, but not limited to, damage to or destruction of school property or the property of others, failure to compensate for damage or destruction of such property, arson, breaking and entering, theft, robbery, possession of stolen property, extortion, trespassing, unauthorized usage, or vandalism;
3

2. The use of profanity or obscene language, or the possession or distribution of obscene, slanderous, libelous, or pornographic materials;
3. Gambling including, but not limited to, playing a game of chance for stakes;
4. Violation of school district or school rules, regulations, policies, or procedures, including, but not limited to, those policies specifically enumerated in this procedure, and/or State, federal, and local laws;
5. Attendance problems including, but not limited to, truancy, absenteeism, tardiness, skipping classes, or leaving school grounds without permission;
6. Physical force, threats of violence, violence, bullying, or hazing;
7. Using, possessing, or distributing tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic cigarettes, or tobacco paraphernalia;
8. Using, possessing, distributing, intending to distribute, making a request to another person for (solicitation), or being under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating substances or look-alike substances;
9. Using, possessing, distributing, intending to distribute, making a request to another person for (solicitation), or being under the influence of narcotics, drugs, or other controlled substances (except as prescribed by a physician), or look-alike substances
(these prohibitions include sharing prescription medication with another student);
10. Using, possessing, or distributing items or articles that are illegal or harmful to persons or property including, but not limited to, drug paraphernalia;
11. Using, possessing, or distributing weapons, or look-alike weapons or other dangerous objects;
12. Possession of ammunition including, but not limited to, bullets or other projectiles designed to be used in or as a weapon;
13. Possession, use, or distribution of explosives or any compound or mixture, the primary or common purpose or intended use of which is to function as an explosive;
14. Possession, use, or distribution of fireworks or any substance or combination of substances or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation;
15. Using an ignition device, including a butane or disposable lighter or matches, inside an educational building and under circumstances where there is a risk of fire, except where the device is used in a manner authorized by the school;
16. Acts disruptive of the educational process including, but not limited to, defiance of authority, failure to identify oneself, improper activation of fire alarms, or bomb threats;
17. Use of the school district's technology and equipment, in violation of the school district's Internet Acceptable Use and Safety Policy or other school rules regarding the use and possession of devices;
18. Violation of school bus or transportation rules or the school district's Student
Transportation Safety Policy;
4

19. Violation of parking or school policies or procedures relating to traffic rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, driving on school property in such a manner as to endanger persons or property or otherwise violating school district ;
20. Violation of directives or guidelines relating to lockers or improperly gaining access to a school locker, or any other violation of the school district's Search of Student Lockers,
Desks, Personal Possessions, and Student's Person Policy;
21. Criminal activity;
22. Falsification of any records, documents, notes, or signatures, and/or tampering with, changing, or altering records or documents of the school district by any method including, but not limited to, computer access or other electronic means;
23. Scholastic dishonesty which includes, but is not limited to, cheating on a school assignment or test, plagiarism, or collusion, including the use of picture phones or other technology to accomplish this end;
24. Violation of the school district's Harassment and Violence Policy;
25. Actions, including fighting or any other assaultive behavior, which causes or could cause injury to the student or other persons or which otherwise endangers the health, safety, or welfare of teachers, students, other school district personnel, or others;
26. Committing an act which inflicts great bodily harm upon another person, even if accidental or as a result of poor judgment;
27. Violations against persons, including, but not limited to, assault or threatened assault, fighting, harassment, interference or obstruction, attack with a weapon, or look-alike weapon, sexual assault, illegal sexual harassment or conduct, or indecent exposure;
28. Verbal assaults or verbally abusive behavior including, but not limited to, use of words, symbols, acronyms, or language, whether oral or written, that are discriminatory, obscene, threatening, or intimidating, or threats to school property;
29. Physical or verbal threats including, but not limited to, the staging or reporting of dangerous or hazardous situations that do not exist;
30. Other acts, as determined by the school district, which are disruptive of the educational process or dangerous or detrimental to the student or other students, school district personnel, or surrounding persons, or which violate the rights of others or which damage or endanger the property of the school, or which otherwise interfere with or obstruct the mission or operations of the school district or the safety or welfare of students or employees.
VII. RECESS AND OTHER BREAKS
A. The school district is encouraged to ensure student access to structured breaks from the demands of school and to support teachers, principals, and other school staff in their efforts to use evidence-based approaches to reduce exclusionary forms of discipline.
.B The school district must not use recess detention unless:
1. a student causes or is likely to cause serious physical harm to other students or staff;
5

2. the student's parent or guardian specifically consents to the use of recess detention; or
3. for students receiving special education services, the student's individualized education program team has determined that withholding recess is appropriate based on the individualized needs of the student.
C. The school district must not withhold recess from a student based on incomplete schoolwork.
D. The school district must require school staff to make a reasonable attempt to notify a parent or guardian within 24 hours of using recess detention.
E. The school district must compile information on each recess detention at the end of each school year, including the student's age, grade, gender, race or ethnicity, and special education status. This information must be available to the public upon request. The school district is encouraged to use the data in professional development promoting the use of non exclusionary discipline.
F. The school district must not withhold or excessively delay a student's participation in scheduled mealtimes. This Section does not alter a district or school's existing responsibilities under Minnesota Statutes, section 124D.111 or other State or federal law.
VIII. REMEDIAL, CORRECTIVE AND/OR DISCIPLINARY OPTIONS
The general policy of the school district is to utilize progressive discipline to the extent reasonable and appropriate based upon the specific facts and circumstances of student misconduct. The specific form of discipline chosen in a particular case is solely within the discretion of the school district. In general, at a minimum, violations of the Code of Conduct, and other school district rules, regulations, policies, or procedures will result in a discussion of the violation and consideration of remedial and/or corrective actions. The school district will, however, impose disciplinary sanctions for any violation, including exclusion or expulsion, if warranted by the student's misconduct, as determined by the school district. Disciplinary action may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following:
A. Student conference with teacher, principal, counselor, or other school district personnel, and verbal warning;
B. Confiscation by school district personnel and/or by law enforcement of any item, article, object, or thing, prohibited by, or used in the violation of, any school district policy, rule, regulation, procedure, or State or federal law. If confiscated by the school district, the confiscated item, article, object, or thing will be released only to the parent/guardian following the completion of any investigation or disciplinary action instituted or taken related to the violation.
C. Parent contact;
D. Parent conference;
E. Removal from class;
F. In-school suspension;
G. Suspension from extracurricular activities;
6

H. Detention, or restriction or loss of school privileges;
I. Restorative justice;
J. In-school monitoring or revised class schedule;
K. Referral to in-school support services;
L. Referral to community resources or outside agency services;
M. Financial restitution;
N. Referral to police, other law enforcement agencies, or other appropriate authorities;
O. Out-of-school suspension under the Pupil Fair Dismissal Act;
P. Preparation of an admission or readmission plan;
Q. Expulsion under the Pupil Fair Dismissal Act;
R. Exclusion under the Pupil Fair Dismissal Act; and/or
S. Other disciplinary action as deemed appropriate by the school district.
IX. REMOVAL OF STUDENTS FROM CLASS
A. The teacher of record shall have the general control and government of the classroom.
Teachers are responsible for attempting to modify disruptive student behavior by actions such as: conferring with the student; using positive behavioral supports and reinforcement, assigning detention or other consequences, and/or contacting the student's parents/guardians. When such measures fail, or when the teacher determines it is necessary based upon the student's conduct, an administrator has the authority to remove the student from class pursuant to this procedure. Grounds for removal from class shall include any of the following:
1. Willful conduct that significantly disrupts the rights of others to an education, including conduct that interferes with a teacher's ability to teach or communicate effectively with students in a class or with the ability of other students to learn;
2. Willful conduct that endangers surrounding persons, including school district employees, the student or other students, or the property of the school; or
3. Willful violation of any school rules, regulations, policies or procedures, including the
Code of Student Conduct in this procedure.
Such removal shall be for at least one (1) activity period or class period of instruction for a given course of study and shall not exceed five (5) such periods.
A student must be removed from class immediately if the student engages in assault or violent behavior.
B. If a student is removed from class more than five (5) times in a school year, teacher/administration shall notify the parent or guardian of the student's fifth removal from class and make reasonable attempts to convene a meeting with the student's parent
7

or guardian to discuss the issue that is causing the student to be removed from class.
X. DISMISSAL
This procedure emphasizes the prevention of dismissals through early detection of problems and the use of nonexclusionary discipline prior to dismissal. It also provides, in the event dismissal is necessary, uniform criteria for dismissal consistent with the Pupil Fair Dismissal Act.
When a student is dismissed from the school district, the student's school has a continuing responsibility for the student's education during the dismissal period. The school must ensure that alternative educational services offered to the student are adequate to allow the student to
3
make progress toward meeting the graduation standards and prepare the student for
4
readmission.
A. The school district must not deny due process or equal protection of the law to any student involved in a dismissal proceeding which may result in suspension, exclusion or expulsion.
The school district must not dismiss any student without attempting to use nonexclusionary disciplinary policies and procedures before dismissal proceedings or student withdrawal agreements, except in those situations in which there is a reasonable belief that a student presents an immediate and substantial danger to themselves or to surrounding persons or property.
The use of exclusionary practices for early learners as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 121A.425 is prohibited. The use of exclusionary practices to address attendance and truancy issues is also prohibited.
B. Violations leading to suspension, based upon severity, may also be grounds for actions leading to expulsion, and/or exclusion. A student may be dismissed on any of the following grounds:
1. Willful violation of any reasonable school board regulation, including those found in this procedure;
2. Willful conduct that significantly disrupts the rights of others to an education, or the ability of school personnel to perform their duties, or school-sponsored extracurricular activities; or
3. Willful conduct that endangers the student or other students, or surrounding persons, including school district employees, or school district property.
C. Disciplinary Dismissals Prohibited
1. A student enrolled in the following is not subject to dismissals under the Pupil Fair
Dismissal Act:
a. a preschool or prekindergarten program, including an early childhood family education, school readiness, school readiness plus, voluntary prekindergarten, Head Start, or other school-based preschool or prekindergarten program; or
3
See Minn. Stat. Sec. 120B.02.
4
See Minn. Stat. Sec. 121A.46, Subd. 5.
8

b. kindergarten through Grade 3.
2. This section does not apply to a dismissal from school for less than one school day, except as provided under Minnesota Statutes Chapter 125A and federal law for a student receiving special education services.
3. Notwithstanding this section, expulsions and exclusions may be used only after nonexclusionary discipline options have been exhausted, and only in circumstances where there is an ongoing serious safety threat to the student or others.
D. Suspension Procedures
1.2. School administration must allow a suspended student the opportunity to complete all school work assigned during the period of the student's suspension and to receive full credit for satisfactorily completing the assignments. The school principal or other person having administrative control of the school building or program is encouraged to designate a district or school employee as a liaison to work with the student's teachers to allow the suspended student to
(1) receive timely course materials and other information, and (2) complete daily and weekly assignments and receive teachers' feedback.
3. If a student's total days of removal from school exceed ten (10) cumulative days in a school year, the school district must make reasonable attempts to convene a meeting with the student and parent or guardian before subsequently removing the student from school and, with the permission of the parent or guardian, arrange for a mental health screening for the student at the parent or guardian's expense.
4. The definition of suspension under Minnesota Statutes, section 121A.41, subdivision
10, does not apply to a student's dismissal from school for less than one day, except as provided under federal law for a student with a disability. Each suspension action may include a readmission plan. The plan must include, where appropriate, a provision for implementing alternative educational services upon readmission which must not be used to extend the current suspension. A readmission plan must not obligate a parent or guardian to provide psychotropic drugs to their student as a condition of readmission.
School administration must not use the refusal of a parent or guardian to consent to the administration of psychotropic drugs to their student or to consent to a psychiatric evaluation, screening, or examination of the student as a ground, by itself, to prohibit the student from attending class or participating in a school-related activity, or as a basis of a charge of child abuse, child neglect, or medical or educational neglect. The school administration may not impose consecutive suspensions against the same student for the same course of conduct, or incident of misconduct, except where the student presents an immediate and substantial danger to themselves or to surrounding persons or property or where the school district is in the process of initiating an expulsion, in which case the school administration may extend the suspension to a total of fifteen (15) days.
5. A student with a disability may be suspended. When a student with a disability has been suspended for more than five (5) consecutive days or ten (10) cumulative school days in the same year, and that suspension does not involve a recommendation for expulsion or exclusion or other change in placement under federal law, relevant members of the student's IEP team, including at least one
9

of the student's teachers, must meet and determine the extent to which the student needs services in order to continue to participate in the general education curriculum, although in another setting, and to progress toward meeting the goals in the student's IEP. That meeting must occur as soon as th possible, but no more than ten (10) days after the sixth (6 ) consecutive day th of suspension or the tenth (10 ) cumulative day of suspension has elapsed.
6. Alternative education services must be provided to a student who is suspended for more than five (5) consecutive school days. Alternative educational services may include, but are not limited to: special tutoring; modified curriculum, modified instruction, other modifications or adaptations; instruction through electronic media; special education services as indicated by appropriate assessments; homebound instruction; supervised homework; or enrollment in another district or in an alternative learning center under Minnesota Statutes
Section 123A.05, selected to allow the student to make progress toward meeting graduation standards under Minnesota Statutes Section 120B.02, although in a different setting.
7. The school administration must not suspend a student from school without an informal administrative conference with the student. The informal administrative conference must take place before the suspension, except where school administration has a reasonable belief that the student presents an immediate and substantial danger to themselves or to surrounding persons or property, in which case the conference must take place as soon as practicable following the suspension. At the informal administrative conference, a school administrator must notify the student of the grounds for the suspension, provide an explanation of the evidence the school district has, and the student may present the student's version of the facts. A separate administrative conference is required for each period of suspension.
8. After school administration notifies a student of the grounds for suspension, school administration may, instead of imposing the suspension, refer to the
Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook.
9. A written notice containing the grounds for suspension, a brief statement of the facts, a description of the testimony, a readmission plan, and a copy of the
Pupil Fair Dismissal Act, must be personally served upon the student at or before the time the suspension is to take effect, and upon the student's parent or guardian by mail within forty-eight (48) hours of the conference.
10. The school administration must make reasonable efforts to notify the student's parent or guardian of the suspension by telephone as soon as possible following suspension.
11. In the event a student is suspended without an informal administrative conference on the grounds that the student presents an immediate and substantial danger to surrounding persons or property, the written notice must be served upon the student and the student's parent or guardian within forty eight (48) hours of the suspension. Service by mail is complete upon mailing.
12. Notwithstanding the provisions above, the student may be suspended pending a hearing officer's decision in an expulsion or exclusion proceeding, provided that alternative educational services are implemented to the extent that the suspension exceeds five (5) consecutive school days.
E. Expulsion and Exclusion Procedures
10

1. All expulsion and exclusion proceedings must be held pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Pupil Fair Dismissal Act.
2. No expulsion or exclusion can be imposed without a hearing, unless the right to a hearing is waived in writing by the student and parent or guardian.
3. The student and parent or guardian must be provided written notice of the school district's intent to initiate expulsion or exclusion proceedings. This notice must be served upon the student and their parent or guardian personally or by mail, and must include: a complete statement of the facts; a list of the witnesses and a description of their testimony; the date, time and place of hearing; a copy of the Pupil Fair Dismissal Act; describe the nonexclusionary disciplinary practices accorded the student in an attempt to avoid the expulsion proceedings; and inform the student and parent or guardian of their right to:
(1) have a representative of the student's own choosing, including legal counsel, at the hearing; (2) examine the student's records before the hearing;
(3) present evidence; and (4) confront and cross-examine witnesses. The school district must advise the student's parent or guardian that free or low-cost legal assistance may be available and that a legal assistance resource list is available from the Minnesota Department of Education and is posted on its website. If the student designates a representative other than the parent or guardian, the representative must have a written authorization from the student and the parent or guardian providing them with access to and/or copies of the student's records.
6. The hearing must be scheduled within ten (10) days of the service of the written notice unless an extension, not to exceed five (5) days, is requested for good cause by the school district, student, parent, or guardian.
7. All hearings must be held at a time and place reasonably convenient to the student, parent, or guardian and must be closed, unless the student, parent, or guardian requests an open hearing.
8. The school district must record the hearing proceedings at district expense, and a party may obtain a transcript at its own expense.
9. The school board may appoint an attorney to represent the school district in any proceeding.
10. All expulsion or exclusion hearings must take place before and be conducted by an independent hearing officer designated by the school district. The hearing must be conducted in a fair and impartial manner. Testimony must be given under oath and the hearing officer has the power to issue subpoenas and administer oaths.
12. At a reasonable time prior to the hearing, the student, parent or guardian, or authorized representative, must be given access to all school district records pertaining to the student, including any tests or reports upon which the proposed dismissal action may be based.
13. The student, parent or guardian, or authorized representative, has the right to compel the presence of any school district employee or agent or any other person who may have evidence upon which the proposed dismissal action may be based.
11

14. The student, parent or guardian, or authorized representative, has the right to present evidence and testimony, including expert psychological or educational testimony.
15. The student cannot be compelled to testify in the dismissal proceedings.
16. The hearing officer must prepare findings and a recommendation based solely upon substantial evidence presented at the hearing, which must be provided to the school board and served upon the parties within two (2) days after the close of the hearing.
17. The school board must base its decision upon the findings and recommendation of the hearing officer and render its decision at a meeting held within five (5)
days after receiving the findings and recommendation. The school board may provide the parties with the opportunity to present exceptions and comments to the hearing officer's findings and recommendation provided that neither party presents any evidence not admitted at the hearing. The decision by the school board must: be based on the record; in writing; and state the controlling facts on which the decision was made in sufficient detail to apprise the parties and the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Education
(Commissioner) of the basis and reason for the decision.
18. A party to an expulsion or exclusion decision made by the school board may appeal the decision to the Commissioner within twenty-one (21) calendar days of school board action pursuant to Minnesota Statutes section 121A.49. The decision of the school board must be implemented during the appeal to the
Commissioner.
19. The school district must report any suspension, expulsion or exclusion action taken to the appropriate public service agency when the student is under the supervision of such agency.
20. The school district must report, through the MDE electronic reporting system, each expulsion or exclusion within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the action to the
Commissioner. This report must include a statement of alternative educational services given the student and the reason for, the effective date, and the duration of the exclusion or expulsion. The report must also include the student's age, grade, gender, race, and special education status. The dismissal report must include state student identification numbers of affected students.
21. Whenever a student fails to return to school within ten (10) school days of the termination of dismissal, a school administrator must inform the student and parent or guardian by U.S. mail of the student's right to attend and be reinstated in the school district.
XI. ADMISSION OR READMISSION PLAN
A school administrator must prepare and enforce an admission or readmission plan for any student who is excluded or expelled from school. The plan must include measures designed to improve the student's behavior, which may include completing a character education program consistent with Minnesota Statutes Section 120B.232, Subd. 1, social and emotional learning, counseling, social work services, mental health services, referral for special education or 504
evaluation, and evidence-based academic interventions. The plan must include reasonable attempts to obtain parent/guardian involvement in the admission or readmission process, and may indicate the consequences to the student of not improving the student's behavior. The
12

readmission plan must not obligate parents/guardians to provide a sympathomimetic medication for their student as a condition of readmission.
XII. NOTIFICATION OF PROCEDURE VIOLATIONS
Notification of any violation of this procedure and resulting disciplinary action shall be as provided herein, or as otherwise provided by the Pupil Fair Dismissal Act or other applicable law. The teacher, principal or other school district official may provide additional notification as deemed appropriate.
In addition, the school district must report, through the MDE electronic reporting system, each exclusion or expulsion, each physical assault of a school district employee by a student, and each withdrawal agreement within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the dismissal action, withdrawal, or assault, to the Commissioner. This report must include a statement of the nonexclusionary disciplinary practices, or other sanction, intervention, or resolution in response to the assault which is imposed upon or provided to the student and the reason for, the effective date, and the duration of the exclusion or expulsion or other sanction, intervention, or resolution. The report must also include the student's age, grade, gender, race, and special education status.
XIII. STUDENT DISCIPLINE RECORDS
Complete and accurate student discipline records must be maintained. The collection, dissemination, and maintenance of student discipline records must be consistent with applicable school district policies and federal and state law, including the Minnesota
Government Data Practices Act, Minn. Stat. Chap. 13.
XIV. STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES
Students who are currently identified as eligible under the IDEA or Section 504 are subject to the provisions of this procedure, unless the student's IEP or 504 plan specifies a necessary modification.
Before initiating an expulsion or exclusion of a student with a disability, relevant members of the student's IEP team and the student's parent or guardian must, consistent with federal law, conduct a manifestation determination to determine whether the student's behavior was (i)
caused by or had a direct and substantial relationship to the student's disability and (ii)
whether the student's conduct was a direct result of a failure to implement the IEP. If the student's educational program is appropriate and the behavior is not a manifestation of the student's disability, the school district may proceed with discipline - up to and including expulsion - as if the student did not have a disability, unless the student's educational program provides otherwise. If the team determines that the behavior subject to discipline is a manifestation of the student's disability, the team must conduct a functional behavioral assessment (FBA) and implement a behavioral intervention plan (BIP) for the student provided that the school district had not conducted such an assessment prior to the manifestation determination before the behavior that resulted in a change of placement. Where a behavioral intervention plan previously has been developed, the team will review the behavioral intervention plan and modify it as necessary to address the behavior.
When a student who has an IEP is excluded or expelled for misbehavior that is not a manifestation of the student's disability, the school district must continue to provide special education and related services during the period of expulsion or exclusion.
XV. OPEN ENROLLED STUDENTS
The school district may terminate the enrollment of a nonresident student enrolled under an
Enrollment Option Program (Minnesota Statutes section 124D.03) or Enrollment in Nonresident
13

District (Minn. Stat. Sec. 124D.08) at the end of a school year if the student meets the definition of a habitual truant, the student has been provided appropriate services for truancy
(Minn. Stat. Chap. 260A), and the student's case has been referred to juvenile court. The school district may also terminate the enrollment of a nonresident student over the age of seventeen (17) enrolled under an Enrollment Options Program if the student is absent without lawful excuse for one or more periods on fifteen (15) school days and has not lawfully withdrawn from school.
XVI. DISCIPLINE COMPLAINT PROCEDURE
Students, parents and guardians, and school staff may file a complaint and seek corrective action when the requirements of the Pupil Fair Dismissal Act, including the implementation of the local behavior and discipline policies and procedures, are not being implemented appropriately or are being discriminately applied.
The Discipline Complaint Procedure must, at a minimum:
1. provide procedures for communicating this procedure including the ability for a parent to appeal a decision under Minnesota Statutes, section 121A.49 that contains explicit instructions for filing the complaint;
2. provide an opportunity for involved parties to submit additional information related to the complaint;
3. provide a procedure to begin to investigate complaints within three (3) school days of receipt, and identify personnel who will manage the investigation and any resulting record and are responsible for keeping and regulating access to any record;
4. provide procedures for issuing a written determination to the complainant that addresses each allegation and contains findings and conclusions;
5. if the investigation finds the requirements of Minnesota Statutes, sections 121A.40 to
121A.61, including any local policies or procedures that were not implemented appropriately, contain procedures that require a corrective action plan to correct a student's record and provide relevant staff with training, coaching, or other accountability practices to ensure appropriate compliance with policies in the future; and
6. prohibit reprisals or retaliation against any person who asserts, alleges, or reports a complaint, and provide procedures for applying appropriate consequences for a person who engages in reprisal or retaliation.
5
C. Expulsion and exclusion dismissals and student withdrawal agreement requirements:
1. When the student is still enrolled in the school district or is awaiting enrollment in a new district, the school district's continuing responsibility includes:
a. reviewing the student's schoolwork and grades on a quarterly basis to ensure the student is on track for readmission with their peers; and
5
Defined in Minn. Stat. Sec. 121A.41, Subd. 13.
14

b. communicating on a regular basis with the student's parent/guardian to ensure the student is completing the work assigned through the alternative educational
6
services. These services are required until the student enrolls in another school or returns to the same school;
7
2. A student receiving school-based or school-linked mental health services in the school district continues to be eligible for those services until the student is enrolled in a new district; and
3. The school district must provide the student's parent/guardian with information on accessing mental health services, including any free or sliding fee providers in the community. The information must also be posted on the school district website.
XVII. REASONABLE FORCE
A. Reporting Requirements
1. The school district must report when any reasonable force has been used on a student with a disability to correct or restrain the student to prevent imminent bodily harm or
8
death to the student or another person.
2. Beginning with the 2024-2025 school year, the school district must report annually by
July 15, in a form and manner determined by the Commissioner of the Minnesota
Department of Education (MDE), data from the prior school year about any reasonable force used on a general education student to correct or restrain the student to prevent
9
imminent bodily harm or death to the student or another person.
10
3. The school district must report to MDE as a restrictive procedure any reasonable force which:
a. intends to hold a student immobile or limit a student's movement where body contact is the only source of physical restraint; or b. confines a student alone in a room from which egress is barred; or c. involves physical holding or seclusion used by an unauthorized or untrained staff person.
XVIII. DISTRIBUTION OF PROCEDURE
The school district will notify students and parents of the existence and contents of this procedure in such manner as it deems appropriate. Copies of this discipline procedure will be made available to all students and parents/guardians at the commencement of each school year and to all new students and parents/guardians upon enrollment. This procedure will also be available upon request in each principal's office.
6
Defined in Minn. Stat. Sec. 121A.41, Subd. 11.
7
See Minn. Stat. Sec. 245.4889.
8
When the reasonable force is consistent with the definition of physical holding under Minn. Stat. Sec.
125A.0941(c), as outlined in M.S. Sec. 125A.0942, Subd. 3(b).
9
When the reasonable force is consistent with the definition of physical holding under Minn. Stat. Sec.
125A.0941(c).
10
Any reasonable force which is used under Minn. Stat. Sections 121A.582; 609.06, Subd. 1; and 609.379.
15

Cross References: Board Policy 506
Student Handbook
16