Agenda Item: 3
School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
Business Meeting - February 20, 2024
Arts Showcase/Sharing the Success
AGENDA SECTION:
3.B. Arts Showcase: District High School Musicals
ITEM:
Cooper High School (CHS) Musical Armstrong High School (AHS) Musical
The CHS production of "How to Succeed In The AHS production of "The Addams
Business Without Really Trying," under the Family - A Musical Comedy," under the direction of Gretchen Wurzer-Palm, will direction of Jenny Lovitt, will start this start this week. Here is an excerpt week.
regarding the story:
In the show, there is a large ensemble
With the help of an instructional made up of "ancestors" who are ghosts guide, J. Pierrepont Finch is locked out of the crypt "until love determined to succeed in business - triumphs." To get into character, ancestors without really trying. Encountering a each came up with a backstory for how corporate bigwig, a romantically they died.
inclined secretary, a wily competitor,
Tickets are available for purchase online and a sexy ex-cigarette girl with
NOW at this link (scroll down on the page ambitions of her own, the intrepid for each performance available) or at the
Finch dodges, parries and plans until box office the night of the performance.
Victory is his.
Performance schedule:
Tickets are available for purchase online
● Friday, February 23 at 7:00 p.m.
NOW at this link (scroll down on the page
● Saturday, February 24 at 7:00 p.m.
for each performance available) or at the
● Wednesday, February 28 at 4:30 p.m. -
box office the night of the performance.
SENIOR CITIZEN MATINEE
Performance schedule:
● Friday, March 1 at 7:00 p.m.
● Thursday, February 22 at 7:00 p.m. ● Saturday, March 2 at 2:00 p.m. -
● Friday, February 23 at 7:00 p.m. CLOSING NIGHT
● Saturday, February 24 at 7:00 p.m.
Robbinsdale Schools Takes on "The
● Sunday, February 25 at 3:00 p.m. -
Addams Family"
MATINEE
● Thursday, February 29 at 7:00 p.m.
● Friday, March 1 at 7:00 p.m.
● Saturday, March 2 at 7:00 p.m. -
CLOSING NIGHT