To: School Board
Re: Sandy Hook Promise
Robbinsdale Public Schools
Implementation Timeline
2023-24
ACTION Date to
Complete by
Say Something-Anonymous Reporting System (SS-ARS)
Informational Meeting/Presentation
March, 2022
● Sandy Hook Promise (SHP) Leadership delivers SS-ARS
Overview to key stakeholders
May 8, 2023
MOU Approval
Kickoff Meeting
● Kickoff meeting with Sandy Hook Promise to review Say
Something-Anonymous Reporting System in detail, define
April 24, 2023
roles and responsibilities, events/incidents and identify process/protocols
School-level Teams Created
● 100% of schools that house students grades 6-12 must
June, 2023
establish a team of 3-5 school-level admin to receive and manage tips
LEA Contact information received
● Provide Sandy Hook Promise with Dispatch contact
June, 2023
information
SS-ARS-related domains / IP address approved
● Allow listing Say Something-Anonymous Reporting
System-related domains and outgoing IP addresses ensures that all official email communications reach team
May, 2023
members. These communications include notifications for trainings and new or updated tips
● Domains and IP address to be allowlisted: p3tips.com, p3campus.com, shp-ars.org, IP address 149.72.174.161
Trainings - Schedule and complete adult user training
Aug. 1, 2023
● All school teams must be trained in the tip management process before students can be trained. Adult User Training

is delivered via live webinar (or in-person). Training is 90
minutes
Identify and Register SAVE Promise Clubs for each participating school (club can be embedded into an existing club)
Aug. 30, 2023
● SAVE Promise Club Website (scroll to the bottom of the page)
Student Training Plan submitted
● District Admin must submit a plan of when they plan to
Aug. 30, 2023
train their students, how many students they'll train, and what format of training they will use.
School teams: Tip Test
● Tip Test is conducted the Tuesday following the Adult User
Training to verify that RAS is ready to implement Say
Something-Anonymous Reporting System
Aug. 30, 2023
● A team receives as "Pass" on the Official Pre-Launch Tip
Test when at least 3 of its members respond to the test properly
● 100% of teams must pass the Tip Test.
Communicate Say Something-Anonymous Reporting System
Sept. 15 to Oct.
initiative to staff, parents and the community
15, 2023
● Materials/Resources provided by SHP
Go-Live is the First Day of Student Training
● Train students in Say Something-Anonymous Reporting
System via Training Video (30 min) or SHP Presenter (60 Sept. 15 to minutes per session) Oct. 15, 2023
● Awareness Materials are displayed in the schools
2 Week Post Launch Check-in
Previous Communication in the Superintent BOE Updates:
March 13, 2023 Sandy Hook Promise Update:
● During the 2021-22 school year, community members promoted the adoption and implementation of several products and services from Sandy Hook Promise at school board meetings. Sandy Hook Promise is a non-profit organization that offers free SEL curricular resources as well as a community-wide anonymous reporting system.
● The Assistant Superintendent and the Director of Curriculum and Instruction met with a representative from Sandy Hook Promise and a community member on 2/14/2022 for an introductory meeting about the products and services offered. A follow-up meeting was held on 3/29/2022 to further discuss the products and services and attain a deeper understanding of how they could function in Robbinsdale Area Schools.
● During the meeting on 3/29/2022, the representative from Sandy Hook Promise indicated that there was a one-year waiting period to implement the anonymous reporting system. This generated an additional meeting with Sandy Hook Promise and the Director of Curriculum and Instruction to ascertain the timeline of implementation. The Sandy Hook Promise representative confirmed that the earliest they could guarantee implementation is in the

spring of 2023.
● In November 2022 the Director of Curriculum and Instruction contacted Sandy Hook Promise to ascertain the availability of participating in the anonymous reporting system. Robbinsdale
Area Schools are in the queue to begin implementation in the fall of 2023.
● In March of 2022, the Curriculum and Instruction staff logged onto the Sandy Hook Website to explore lessons. They learned that staff will have to have a separate account with Sandy Hook
Promise. While the team was researching the curriculum, the Sandy Hook Promise network crashed. The curriculum is not aligned to MN state standards.
● On February 28th, secondary schools leaders learned about the components of Sandy Hook
Promise and will be providing input.
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1gLcRKL7OI93y50PP3nwTGuw462GkJPkOYs8bdt83rDc
/edit?usp=sharingHere is the presentation.
It is important to know that adding a program and curriculum requires a process. We currently have Second Step curriculum, Gaggle which monitors our students usage of our devices, and an anonymous reporting system in Speak Up. Our next steps will be to review all information and meet with principals to determine our course of action.
2023
May 5, 2023
● Signed Memo of Understanding (MOU) 5.2.23.
● Secondary schools are currently identifying the student group for the SAVE Promise Club and staff advisor.
● Secondary schools are currently identifying their administrator call list for the anonymous tip line.
● RAS leaders will work with the SHP team to develop an action plan and timeline in the next few weeks.
May 22, 2023
● We had our Sandy Hook kick off meeting with Sandy Hook leaders on May 15th.