To: Robbinsdale School Board
From: Alissa Pier - FOT
Date: 01/19/2024
Re: 36th Avenue Rehabilitation Project
The City of Plymouth is planning an extensive redesign of 36th Avenue, the street that runs in front of Plymouth Middle School and Armstrong High School. We have met with their coordination team many times over the past few months to discuss potential impacts this will have on the district.
There was particular focus paid to the work being done along the northside of Plymouth Middle
School, as that is an area that was identified as needing greater alignment to improve traffic and increase pedestrian safety.
The current proposed scope of work includes specific alterations to portions of our property, including the reduction in the amount of curb cuts at Plymouth Middle School, among other things.
Representatives from the City of Plymouth Coordination Team will be presenting their work to the
School Board on February 5, 2024. As such, there are a few key things you should be aware of prior to this presentation.
● In one option, we leave our property the way it is, without any realignment of curb cuts.
● In the other option, the design shows a reduction in the number of curb cuts, alterations to how vehicular traffic enter and egress from the site, and improved pedestrian crosswalks.
Both options result in property tax assessments. The latter of the two also results in additional "site improvement" costs, which may be partially negated through a credit due to a 15' easement across the north end of the property. These expenses can be paid over a period of time (15 years, for example.)
We are awaiting additional information from the city as to the specific financial impact of this project in both scenarios, but as both result in the District paying a special assessment, we see value in making the alterations proposed in the second option, to better serve students and the community by providing safer traffic control and a pedestrian environment.

(*Note: This is a recent diagram of the proposed site improvements along 36th Avenue.
An updated document will be provided at the February 5, 2024 School Board meeting.)