ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Reviewed October 2, 2023

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, September 18, 2023 at New
Hope City Hall in the council chambers. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on

our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch
School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Assistant Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Joint Labor Management Committee
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources and Peter Eckhoff, President of the Robbinsdale Federation of

Teachers (RFT)

Ms. O'Hern and Mr. Eckhoff discussed the process the Joint Labor Management Committee goes through to vet insurance options, and work to make decisions in the best interest of all district employees. Members of this committee are representatives from all bargaining groups in the district. The committee will have our 2024 premium rates on the consent

agenda October 2, 2023.

Board Topics
Helen Bassett, School Board Chair
1. Resolution Authorizing Payment of Specific Statements in Advance of Board Approval
Additional discussion around the three items that were removed from the original resolution:
e Item 2: Contracted Transportation Services e Item 3: Registration and Travel Expenses e ltem 9: Special Speaker Fees, Consulting Fees, Contracted Fees
Much discussion about:
e Knowing what the expenses are for in advance - batch reported in consent agenda with contract summary/description e What the are the outcomes (prior or forecasted) and how do they align to the strategic plan e Want to interact with the budget in a different way
2. Interim Superintendent Search
Based on the Superintendent Separation Agreement approved tonight, the search for an interim superintendent has changed. Marti Voight offered to assume the role of interim superintendent until a new superintendent is hired, as she has the licensure to do so. She will retire at the end of the year. This would allow the Board to take their time to search for a new superintendent with the assistance of a search firm. Board Directors appreciated this offer and agreed it would be best to have someone in the interim role that knows the district well.

New Business/Old Business
There were no topics presented in this agenda item.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board