Robbinsdale
Area Schools
American Indian Education
Director of Achievement & Integration: Beth Tepper
Assistant Director of Achievement & Integration: Tony Patterson
American Indian School Climate & Cultural Specialists:
Carlie Anderson
Hinhan Loud Hawk
Mallory Glynn
Angela Gudahl

Land Acknowledgements
● History
● Definition
● Key aspects
● Robbinsdale Land Acknowledgement
● Action steps

History
● Land acknowledgements began as a traditional custom for many
Indigenous nations
● The first institutions/organizations to practice land acknowledgements derived from New Zealand and Canada
● Land acknowledgements gained momentum in the U.S. after the fight against the Dakota Access Pipeline
(2017)

Definition
"A land acknowledgement is a simple, brief statement about an institution or organizations acknowledgement of
Indigenous people, their land tenure, and a commitment from the institution to seek justice and right historical injustices" -Dr. Anton Treuer

Key Aspects
● Relational
○ Acknowledges relationship with land
○ Involves everyone
● Local specific
○ Map of Indigenous territories found online
● Acknowledges the past, present, & future
○ Past and current injustices
○ Voices of Indigenous nations today
○ Action steps

Robbinsdale School District Land
Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people. We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the
Indigenous inhabitants of this land. We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms. We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.

Action Steps
● Familiarize yourself with the history of Indigenous people and colonization
● Present the land acknowledgement
○ Before events and meetings
○ On webpages
○ Posted in buildings
● Commit yourself to supporting Indigenous communities and causes
○ Language revitalization
○ Land based education
○ Tribal sovereignty

Poster Design
By Hinhan Loud Hawk

Questions?
Gichi-Miigwech!

ia

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools

Poster Design
By Hinhan Loud Hawk

ROBBINSDALE SCHOOL DISTRICT

LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area

Schools is located on the homeland of the
® Dakota and Ojibwe people. We recognize ypthe painful history of genocide and forced
: assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants ae of this land. We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and
+. hold sacred these lands, and we stand

"wie

op with members of these Nations to fight :

ti Ww injustice in alf of its forms. We uphold emN

x

the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal so vereignty.

=

€ ye Le $ . | ' ,

ia

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools

Questions?

Gichi-Miigwech!