ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Work Session

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*Reviewed April 17, 2023

A Special Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools was held Tuesday, April 11, 2023. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon Brooks Green, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Board Topics

A. Brainstorming: Climate, Culture, Safety, Security - Prioritize
The School Board focused on Safety and Security (Climate and Culture were tabled for discussion at a later date).
Brainstorming, finding themes, prioritizing themes and determining questions in regard to the themes to be addressed by district administration. An Ad-Hoc Committee of Directors Bowman, Holmes and Long was created. The committee will take the notes from this discussion to create a cohesive document to present to Superintendent Engstrom, to help guide this important work with his staff.

B. Discussion of Policy 214: Out-of-State Travel by School Board Members
Director Brooks Green brought her concerns about this policy forward, asking to know what district administration has annually regarding the out-of-state professional development for them and their staff.

C. Information Sessions
Superintendent Engstrom offered additional small group sessions, where he and his Cabinet could provide more detailed information to the School Board in an effort to make sure they receive all of the information they require to do their work. Though appreciative of the offer, the School Board preferred to add an additional Work Session each month - preferably during the second meeting of the month after Listening Time and the Business Meeting.

D. School Board Professional Development
A Deborah Keys Write debrief and wrap up was proposed, due to two directors not being present during the goal-setting portion of the January PD with her. Discussion on whether or not Ms. Keys Write should be present, or review the notes regarding goals as a group and prioritize (split opinions on this). Paula Forbes has a legal background - would be more informative, less governance PD. MDE Dream Catcher Project was mentioned as a potential idea for additional PD.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board