BOARD POLICY TYPE: GOVERNANCE PROCESS
1.6 BOARD OFFICERS AND
LEVEL OF AUTHORITY
Adopted November 2, 2002
Revised December 12, 2005
The Board shall have an annual organizational meeting to elect a Chair, Vice Chair,
Clerk, and Treasurer. School board officers are charged with the duty of carrying out the responsibilities delineated in this policy.
A. CHAIR
The Chair shall:
1. Preside at all meetings of the School Board and ensure the orderly conduct of the meetings.
2. Develop board meeting agendas in consultation with the Superintendent and input from board members.
3. Ensure the Board takes action on only those issues that, according to board policy, belong to the Board to decide, not those falling within the purview of the
Superintendent.
4. Confer with the Superintendent as may be necessary and desirable.
5. Ensure deliberations are fair, open, thorough, as well as efficient, timely, and to the point.
6. Ensure that Board policies are appropriately implemented.
7. Represent the Board to outside parties in announcing Board-stated positions and in stating decisions and interpretations within the areas assigned to the
Chair. The Chair may delegate this authority, but remains accountable for its use.
8. Direct the Superintendent only with specific directions from the Board.
9. Ensure the Superintendent and Board evaluations are completed according to board procedures.
10. Appoint, in collaboration with the Board, individual board members to out-ofdistrict, district and board committees and organizations.
11. Initiate, in collaboration with the Board, ad hoc committees to accomplish specific tasks.
12. Countersign orders upon the treasurer for claims approved by the Board.
Continued
Monitoring Method: Board Self-Assessment
Monitoring Frequency: Annually in May or June
9

1.6 Board Officers and Level of Authority continued
A. CHAIR continued
13. Sign all contracts, agreements, deeds, and conveyances approved by the Board and all reports prepared by the administration that require the signature of the chair.
14. In case of the absence, inability, or refusal of the clerk to draw orders for the payment of money authorized by a vote of the majority of the Board to be paid, the chair may draw orders, or the office of the clerk may be declared vacant by the chair and treasurer and filled by appointment.
B. VICE CHAIR
The Vice Chair shall:
1. Perform the duties of the Chair in the event of the chair's temporary absence.
2. Assist Chair as requested in the execution of Chair responsibilities.
3. Participate in meetings with the chair and Superintendent to develop the Board agendas.
C. CLERK
The Clerk shall:
1. Perform the duties of the Chair in the temporary absence of the Chair and Vice-
Chair.
The Clerk (or Assistant Clerk as the Clerk's designee) shall:
1. Keep a complete record of proceedings of the School Board at its meetings.
2. Sign, or cause to be signed, all orders upon the Treasurer for payment of bills, salaries and contracts approved by the Board to be disbursed by the Treasurer.
3. Assure accuracy of Board meeting minutes.
4. Perform all other duties imposed by Minnesota statutes and other such duties as may be assigned by the School Board.
Monitoring Method: Board Self-Assessment
Monitoring Frequency: Annually in May or June
10

D. TREASURER
The Treasurer shall:
1. Perform the duties of the Chair in the temporary absence of the Chair, Vice-
Chair and Clerk.
2. Serve as the Board representative on the Financial Advisory Council.
The Treasurer (or Deputy Treasurer as the Treasurer's designee) shall:
1. Deposit, upon receipt, all district funds in depositories designated and approved by the School Board.
2. Sign all orders upon the treasurer approved by the School Board, thereby converting the orders to checks.
3. Sign all contracts, agreements and all other reports that require the signature of the
Treasurer.
4. Make certain that all records pertaining to the receipt and disbursement of district funds are properly maintained.
5. Receive, hold in custody and expend all funds as directed by the School Board.
6. Perform all other duties imposed by Minnesota statutes and other such duties as may be assigned by the School Board or the Superintendent of schools.
Monitoring Method: Board Self-Assessment
Monitoring Frequency: Annually in May or June
11