EXTRACT OF MINUTES OF A MEETING
OF THE SCHOOL BOARD OF
INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 281
(ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS)
STATE OF MINNESOTA.
Pursuant to due call and notice thereof, a meeting of the School
Board of Independent School District No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools), State of Minnesota, was duly held in said district on , 2009, at o'clock __.m. for the

purpose, in part, of adopting a resolution establishing a school district primary election system.

Member moved the adoption of the following Resolution:

RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING SCHOOL DISTRICT
PRIMARY ELECTION SYSTEM

WHEREAS, the board wishes elections in Independent School District No. 281 to continue to be subject to the primary election system;

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the School Board of Independent School
District No. 281, State of Minnesota, as follows:

1. The school board hereby determines that nominees for school board office at the
2009 general election and thereafter shall be chosen by primary election.

2. The school district primary election shail be held on the date specified by law for school district primary elections. The filing periods shall be as specified by law.

3. If in any year there are more than two candidates for a specified school board position or there are more than twice as many school board candidates as there are at-large school board positions available, a primary election must be held that year.

4, The school district primary elections shall be conducted pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes, Section 205A.03, as amended, and the Minnesota election laws generally. The school district clerk is authorized and directed to take such actions as necessary to be prepared to conduct primary elections.

5. This resolution is effective for all ensuing elections of school board members unless it is revoked.

STATE OF MINNESOTA )
COUNTY OF HENNEPIN es

I, the undersigned, being the duly qualified and acting Clerk of Independent School
District No. 281, State of Minnesota, hereby certify that the attached and foregoing is a full, true and correct transcript of the minutes of a meeting of the school board of said school district duly called and held on the date therein indicated, so far as such minutes relate to establishing a school district primary election system and that the resolution included therein is a full, true and

correct copy of the original thereof.

WITNESS MY HAND officially as such clerk this day of 2009.

Clerk