ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS - INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 281
FINANCIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL (FAC)
MINUTES FOR NOVEMBER 14, 2023
DRAFT
FAC Members
X Lennie Kaufman, Chair X April Gulley
Walter Gray X Katherine Lankford
Greg Kugler, X Nicole Sandback
X Edwin Ochoa
School Board Member
X John Vento, Treasurer
District 281 Staff
X Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent X Virginia Lim Stembridge, Senior Accountant
X Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance
X Karylanne Marchand, Business Office Manager
Agenda Item 1: Welcome and Introductions
Chair Lennie Kaufman called the meeting to order, with the FAC members and others noted above in attendance. The meeting was held in-person at the Educational Service Center. Mr. Kaufman opened the meeting by welcoming the attendees, including a new member to the FAC, Edwin Ochoa, and Interim
Superintendent Marti Voight. The committee members introduced themselves and shared their connection with Robbinsdale Area Schools.
Agenda Item 2: Acceptance of Agenda
The agenda had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was properly made and seconded to accept the distributed agenda. The motion passed unanimously.
Agenda Item 3: Approve May 16, 2023 Meeting Minutes
The minutes had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was properly made and seconded to accept the minutes. The motion passed unanimously.
Agenda Item 4: Appointment of FAC Chair and FAC Secretary
In accordance with FAC Bylaws (Article IV, Section D), the members of FAC appoint a member of the council to serve as Chair for this fiscal year. Mr. Lennie Kaufman was properly nominated and seconded to serve as the 2023-24 FAC Chair. There were no other nominations. Mr. Kaufman was unanimously elected.
In addition, the members of FAC have chosen to appoint a member to serve as Secretary. Ms. Nicole
Sandback was properly nominated and seconded to serve as the 2023-24 FAC Recording Secretary.
There were no other nominations. Ms. Sandback was unanimously elected.

Agenda Item 5: Budget and Staffing Timeline
Interim Superintendent Marti Voight presented the timeline for the preparation of the FY25 Budget. A
timeline was distributed to the FAC showing the various steps involved in the budget and which parties were involved in completing those steps. Formal review of FY25 budget assumptions is first expected in
February 2024, followed by an in-depth discussion of a preliminary budget proposal in May 2024 and final passage of the FY25 budget in June 2024.
Agenda Item 6: Question Bank
Ms. Voight explained that Stakeholder Input Sessions would be held at various sites, as well as virtually, starting in November. As part of the process of getting stakeholder feedback, a survey is being prepared to hone in on areas for feedback from stakeholders. Ms. Voight explained that questions are currently being gathered to create the survey; she requested that the FAC members send five questions by th
November 17 for consideration for the district survey. The survey will be available for members of the school, parents, students, etc. to take.
Ms. Voight left the meeting after she finished presenting her agenda items.
Agenda Item 7: Levy Pay 24 Update
Ms. Virginia Verbrugge presented the district's proposed FY25 levy amounts, with a line-by-line comparison to FY20 through FY24. Ms. Verbrugge explained the reasons behind some of the larger changes, as well as upcoming changes to existing levies. The calculated percentage change from Pay23
to Proposed Pay24 is 4.8%. From Pay18 to Pay24 the Capital Projects Levy trend has steadily increased, mostly from increases to property tax. The Capital Projects Levy (currently approved by the voters to be spent on technology) will be expiring after taxes payable in 2024. The November 2014 Authority of
Referendum expires after taxes payable in 2025.
The Capital Levy information needs to be given to the school board by Spring and wording needs to be ready by July.
On December 18, 2023, the District is to adopt the final levy at the ISD 281 scheduled school board meeting. December 28, 2023 is the deadline to submit the final levy to Hennepin County and January 8,
2024 is the deadline to submit the final levy to the Minnesota Department of Education.
The preliminary levy for Pay 24 was set at the maximum dollar amount allowed (as has been the case in prior years).
Agenda Item 8: Audit Update
Ms. Verbrugge explained that the audit will probably finish later than usual due to a number of reasons, including the Robbinsdale School District Executive Director of Finance's departure in July, additional changes in staffing, and the priority of tracking ESSR funds. It is planned to have everything submitted to th the state by November 30
.
Ms. Verbrugge provided an update that the deferred compensation claim was finalized for around
$300,000.
Agenda Item 9: Future Meetings/FAC Timeline:

The currently scheduled meetings for the remainder of the fiscal year are as follows:
• January 16, 2024
• March 12, 2024
• May 14, 2024
• August 5, 2024 presentation of 2023-2024 report to the School Board
Agenda Item 10: Other
No other items were presented for discussion.
Agenda Item 11: Adjourn
After a proper motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting, the meeting was adjourned.
Meeting minutes submitted by Nicole Sandback.