From: Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee
Date: 1.8.2024
Re: Status Update
Past Committee Meeting Dates: August 29, 2023, October 4, 2023, December 6, 2023,
December 20, 2023
Upcoming Committee Meeting Dates: January 17, 2024 @4:30
Review of Committee's purpose:
To provide recommendations to the full Board of Education regarding safety and security initiatives, how to address and communicate about incidents and other related priorities.
Ad Hoc Committee's Recommendation for Board Consideration:
Jan 8, 2024 - The Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee recommends the following:
● All Directors review the list of Safety and Security Recommendations provided via e-mail on Jan 5, 2024 by Director Powell & Interim Superintendent Voight.
Summarize your questions & feedback and provide it to Director Holmes via email.
She will then summarize the information in preparation for discussion as a full
Board;
● Add Board discussion and prioritization of the following to the next work session on
Jan 22, 2024 and anticipate moving directives/approvals to action on Feb 5, 2024 :
○ Discuss and prioritize Director Powell & Interim Superintendent Voight's provided recommendations;
○ Determine consensus on Board Incident Notification Threshold - Ad Hoc
Committee is prepared with a recommendation to start discussion;
○ Discuss Ad Hoc Committee's recommendation of further marketing of the
Sandy Hook Promise Program and Sandy Hook Promise Reporting App.
reporting frequency;
1

● Direct Chair, Vice Chair to schedule a closed meeting at the next agenda setting meeting to discuss crisis preparedness plans as recommended by Director Powell &
Interim Superintendent Voight. In the meeting, action should be taken on what details/terms can be shared with stakeholders with the understanding that certain specifics must remain confidential for safety purposes.
● Direct Chair, Vice Chair to schedule a lockdown drill for the School Board at ESC as recommended by Interim Superintendent Voight & Director Powell.
2

Meeting Overviews:
December 20, 2023 - Attendees: Directors Bowman, Long & Holmes, Director of Safety
& Security Bo Powell, Interim Superintendent Marti Voight
1. Started meeting with Interim Superintendent Voight and Director Powell distributing the following information to Directors:
a. Draft form of Critical Threshold Response to the School Board b. Incident Command Organizational Personnel Chart c. Blank Robbinsdale Area Schools Debrief Protocol Dated 12/11/23
d. Sandy Hook YTD Say Something Anonymous Reporting App Report - missing a middle school. Action: Director Powell to provide an updated report to the
Ad Hoc Committee.
2. Discussion on the most recent PMS altercation brought to the attention of the RAS
School Board Listening Hour on 12/18/23. Action: Directors requested After Incident
Review;
3. Brainstorming as a group on a list of actions/items including metal detectors, substance abuse counselors, vape detectors, discipline tracking process for administrators/adults in buildings, Action: Director Powell to provide a wish list of items/recommendations before winter break. Item received January 5, 2024;
Next Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee Meeting: January 17, 2024.
3

December 6, 2023 - Attendees: Directors Bowman, Long & Holmes, Director of Safety
& Security Bo Powell, Interim Superintendent Marti Voight and two community members
1. Shared Safety and Security: Ad Hoc Committee - Data Request Tracker with Interim
Superintendent Voight and Director Powell;
2. Discussion on Stronger Connections Grant for replacement of middle school security cameras Action: Administration and Director Powell to provide a written summary of the grant including an overview of the replacement/sustainability plan;
3. Discussion of evacuation plans and physical safety plans, impaired students and safe rooms;
4. Discussion of Student Summit, CHS had taken place, AHS was planned Action:
Director Powell to provide summary of events;
5. Discussion of Sandy Hook Promise Student Panel and ask for follow-up report.
Action: Director Powell to provide summary of Sandy Hook Promise Student
Panel, their training and next steps.
6. Discussion of Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee meeting with various first responders within District 281 including Chief Green & Assistant Chief, FEMA
representative from Plymouth PD, Fire Regional Response Teams, etc. Action: Ad
Hoc Committee to tighten up the purpose and scope of this planned meeting during its December 20th meeting;
7. Discussion and review of action codes and where/how they are presented on
District website. Document is available here: RAS Emergency Response Guide
Action: Interim Superintendent Voight to review with Communications
Department;
8. Action: Director Powell to provide his safety & security "wish list" via e-mail to
Directors Bowman, Long & Holmes. Directors to review and discuss priorities/recommendations in January meetings;
9. Action: Interim Superintendent Voight & Director Powell recommend scheduling a closed meeting to discuss crisis preparedness plans. In the meeting, action should be taken on what details/terms can be shared with stakeholders with the understanding that certain specifics must remain confidential for safety purposes.
Date TBD;
4

10. Action: Interim Superintendent Voight & Director Powell recommend scheduling a lockdown drill for the School Board at ESC. Date TBD.
11. Action: Director Powell to provide the YTD reports from the Sandy Hook Promise
Anonymous Reporting App via e-mail to Directors Bowman, Long & Holmes.
Directors to review and discuss recommendations for reporting frequency to the
Board in January meetings;
12. Discussion of Chair Bassett's November 2022 Memo and request for a formal response. Action: Interim Superintendent Voight to respond to Chair Bassett with how Administration responded to the memo and identify any remaining questions.
Chair Bassett, as well as any Board director, is asked to write up and submit any outstanding concerns to the Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee via email;
13. Action: Directors Bowman, Long & Holmes to bring incident communication threshold/flowchart recommendation to full Board at the January 8, 2024 meeting;
14. Action: Interim Superintendent Voight to provide Board with individual after incident reports of provided list from professional development sessions.
Next Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee Meeting: December 20, 2023.
5

October 4, 2023 - Attendees: Directors Bowman, Long & Holmes and two community members.
1. Crosscheck of electronic information received from Administration relating to the
May 2023 Ad Hoc Committee Memo;
2. Safety and Security: Ad Hoc Committee - Data Request Tracker created by Director
Long;
3. Outstanding items:
● Cabinet Leadership to develop Annual Safety and Security SMART goals for defined areas. Action: Interim Superintendent Voight to provide blank copy of evaluation tool;
● Organizational chart of each multidisciplinary team in safety & security framework. Action: Director Long provided an example to Interim
Superintendent Voight. Timeline: TBD
● List of safety and security grants;
● Process to write grants from FEMA - Director Powell contact; Action: waiting on timeline of when to expect preliminary findings;
● Blank Harassment Form provided - Action: Ad Hoc Committee reviewed form further discussion needed on process and details within form including contact person vs. two, who fills out the form, detailed steps and explanation of why Tennessen Warning is used;
● Blank referral forms from each school; Action: Administration to provide;
● Schedule of Student Handbook reviews - who & when; Action: Administration to provide;
● Outline of current process for staff reports of harassment Action:
Administration to provide. Directors to provide feedback including potential resources of the Office of Equality and Civil Rights and Office of Ombudsman;
● Emergency Preparedness Plans - Action: Ad Hoc Committee to discuss this section of memo in more detail with Administration;
● Culture and Climate Specialists, School Psychologists and Social Workers job descriptions. Initial document from August 2023: Student Support Positions
Overview - Action: Administration to provide;
6

● Trauma Teams- Action: Ad Hoc Committee to discuss this section of memo in more detail with Administration;
● SRO Flow Chart of when to contact police; Action: Administration to provide,
Ad Hoc Committee discussing alternatives to SRO's while they are not in buildings;
● Equipment - a complete list of all broken/outdated equipment including all safety associated lights, speakers, intercoms, fire safety etc; Action:
Administration to provide;
● Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for maintaining equipment Action:
Administration to provide;
● Results/raw data from District Student Opinion Survey conducted by
Administration in February/March 2023 along with the source or process used to determine the questions as well as the steps taken to communicate the survey to students Action: Administration to provide;
● Results/raw data from any staff survey conducted by Administration regarding safety & security along with the source or process used to determine the questions as well as the steps taken to communicate the survey to staff Action: Administration to provide;
7

August 29, 2023 - Attendees: Directors Bowman, Long & Holmes, Director of Safety &
Security Bo Powell and Assistant Superintendent Marti Voight
1. Discussion of May 18, 2023 Ad Hoc Committee memo to Administration (attached).
AS Voight and Director Powell had not been privy to the memo until this meeting.
Documents provided by Assistant Superintendent Voight via e-mail on August 23,
2023 (electronic copies in shared Board google drive):
● Emergency Response One Pager
● Raptor and Infinite Campus Workflow Systems
● Gaggle
● Grants related to Safety & Security
● BARR Executive Summary
● Legal Rights Center Executive Summary
● Culture and Climate Specialists, School Psychologists and Social WorkersFTE Allocation
● Harassment Policy 413
○ RAS harassment Policy form
○ 413 redline 2023
○ 413 RAS
Further discussion topics:
● Director Long reiterated Brooklyn Bridge is looking to partner with District 281
in creating initiatives related to safety and security as well as help train individuals within the District;
● Regarding other safety & security initiatives: Director Powell shared he meets with a Community Crisis Response Team for information sharing/gathering;
● Director Powell shared he has a contact to assist with writing grants for FEMA
dollars;
● Assistant Superintendent Voight & Director Powell shared a DRAFT
Multidisciplinary School Safety & security Framework Recommendation presentation with the Ad Hoc Committee. AS Voight stated this document had been given to the Superintendent in May 2023 to be shared with the
School Board.
Action: Ad Hoc Committee is reviewing the presentation to provide feedback to now Interim Superintendent Voight and Director Powell.
8