To: Board of Education Directors
From: Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent
Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance
Re: Executive Director of Finance
The position of Executive Director of Finance has oversight of the district's budget and all business operations. The position is vital to the financial stability and efficiency of the district. The person in this role is often the "face of finance" in reporting to the Board and community.
Why we need this position posted as soon as possible:
1. Accurate and accountable financial oversight and management are critical to the stability of Robbinsdale Area Schools
2. Particularly as enrollment decreases, the person in this position is responsible to create accurate financial forecasts and foresee financial needs in the future
3. The Executive Director of Finance plays a pivotal role in the superintendent's cabinet, ensuring district leadership receives accurate, timely information to make informed decisions
4. The Executive Director of Finance fulfills vital oversight and compliance responsibilities, including:
● Management of Long Term Facilities Maintenance state-mandated funding
● Compliance with federal, State, and local laws, regulations, codes, and/or standards
● Preparation for and accuracy of annual financial audit, including in-depth analysis of budgeted vs. actual numbers to explain context for variances
5. The Executive Director of Finance oversees and manages operations of the 12-member
(11.5 FTE) finance and business office staff
Impact of the current situation:
● Having the Assistant Finance Director doing the Executive Director's job as well as her own is unsustainable
● A senior accountant recently resigned due to the heavy workload. We are hiring a 1.0 FTE
program assistant and reassigned .5 FTE of an HR position to assist in Finance - evidence of insufficient staffing to manage the work.
● The daily presence of a strong Executive Director of Finance is essential to attending to high-level work and department leadership
Why consultants are not feasible
● Rdale has contracted or explored contracting with Clifton, Larson, and Allen; CESO; Robert
Half; and Baker Tilly
● These companies cannot provide the high-level executive staff required for this position