Executive Summary Memo - Robbinsdale Area School ISD 281
Your School Focus Group team at USI Insurance Services thanks you for the opportunity to handle your property/casualty insurance program.
Market Update & Rate Forecast
The following are key takeaways from The Council of Insurance Agents & Brokers' Commercial Property/Casualty
Market Report Q2 2023 (April 1 - June 30, 2023):
• Q2 2023 was the 23rd consecutive quarter of premium increases, at 8.9%. Medium-sized accounts saw the highest increase, at 9.8%, though only slightly higher than the 9.7% increase in premiums for large-sized accounts.
• Commercial property had the highest reported increase out of all lines, at 18.3%. Natural catastrophe losses and rising property values were among the primary drivers of these increases, according to respondents. Issues with reinsurance capacity led to difficulties placing property policies in the admitted market, especially for coastal property, as well as non-renewals from some carriers on existing accounts.
• Cyber premiums rose by only 3.6% this quarter, the strongest sign of relief for the line seen so far.
Respondents also reported greater carrier appetite for underwriting cyber.
• Workers compensation notched the 6th consecutive quarter of decreases, at -0.7%. Commercial auto also recorded an increase of 10.4%, marking a milestone of 50 consecutive quarters of premium increases.
• Respondents reported that high premiums and future premium increases remained top of mind for their clients. Some reported that clients were "rate fatigued," leading to them purchasing lower limits or biting the bullet and increasing their deductibles to keep premiums down. A respondent from a midsize Northeastern firm mentioned that combined with compounding rate increases, the "demand by insurance carriers for risk control, inspections, worksheets, claims reviews, and general information" appeared to be contributing to a level of mistrust among clients.
• "Adopting new technology," "becoming more data-driven," and "enhancing the customer experience" were all top priorities for respondents this quarter, besides "driving organic growth" and "recruiting and developing talent." Respondents saw leveraging technology to get better and more accurate data in front of their clients, as well as using that data to develop better offerings and inform risk management strategies, all as key to enhancing the customer experience.

PREMIUM PRICING BY LINE OF BUSINESS
Most lines of business experienced further moderation in Q1 2023. The majority of lines recorded lower average increases this quarter than in the previous quarter. Cyber in particular experienced notable relief in premium increases, with respondents reporting an average cyber premium increase of 8.4%, down from 15.0% in Q4 2022, and significantly down from the increases of over 20% seen just a year ago. Workers compensation premiums also continued to fall at an average of -0.5%.
Commercial property was the only line this quarter that did not see any sign of moderation. Inflation and natural catastrophe continued to significantly impact the line. Many respondents highlighted issues with extreme increases in premiums, reduced limits, and high deductibles. "Commercial property was a mess," said one respondent from a large Midwestern firm, and survey results bore that out.

HOW USI CAN HELP:
Organizations should take advantage of risk control strategies to place their enterprises in the best light with insurance.
carriers, and use all available tools to ensure asset values are in line with industry expectations. Opportunities exist to make positive impacts on insurance costs, coverage, and risk quality.
To help clients navigate complex business challenges, USI shares expert insights and key solutions through our Executive
Series. Our cross-functional teams work to provide timely information on new and evolving topics in risk management, employee benefits, personal insurance, and retirement. We then share tailored solutions to help you guide your organization successfully, enhance insurance coverage, and control costs.
For additional information and resources, please visit our Executive Insights page:
https://www.usi.com/executive-insights
RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN ASSESSMENT & IMPLEMENTATION:
Given these and other market changes and challenges, experts recommend that commercial brokers such as ours who have the resources begin the renewal process early and explore multiple market strategies, in tandem with implementing a robust risk management plan. That way, we stay ahead of surprises with innovative and creative renewal strategies which transition the outcomes in our clients' best favor. It is our responsibility to keep you informed of the challenging market we continue to face.
Nonetheless, we would have strongly recommended our team implement a robust risk management plan to combat these conditions as it related to your entity, as losses have crept up in the last few years and we want to implement mitigation strategies to derive positive results in both frequency of losses, leading to premium reductions and a better risk profile. See suggested sample below titled 'Targeted Risk Management Plan'.

Targeted Risk Management Plan
Your USI's Property/Casualty & Risk Management team suggests using a holistic risk management approach which should coincide with a strong ERM (enterprise risk management) program. This risk management plan tends to focus on the following five operational areas:
1. Strategic/Business Operations
2. Legal/Transaction Liability
3. Workers Compensation/Safety/Loss Control
4. General Insurance/Health Insurance
5. Corporate Governance/Information Security
In turn, when assessing and reporting on risk in each area, we suggest applying the following evaluative model:
• Identification of the specific risk evaluated.
• Assignment of the degree of risk the identified practices present.
• Determination of the urgency with which the identified risk should be addressed.
• The USI Risk Management Team's methodology in completing a risk management assessment takes a broad assessment of your organization in tandem with what is assessed by your insurance carriers, utilizing various reports to help provide guidance to help manage the areas of greatest concern. This gives our clients a comprehensive continuous improvement plan that creates a vision and course of action for its - helping better protect the hard and soft costs of its organization.
• Description of our recommendations for mitigating the identified risk(s).
Like any organization, your enterprise is confronted with numerous challenges and risks, of which the following are amongst the most common for your industry (not in any order):
I. Cyber/Crime Risks & Financial Controls
II. Contractual Risk Transfer Liability
III. Employee Training
IV. PCA Employment Status/Wage and Hour and Joint Status of Employer/Employee, Malpractice Exposure
V. Network Employment/Privacy Liability Business Continuity & Strategy
VI. Corporate Governance
VII. Fleet Safety/Controls
VIII. Safety Implementation Strategy
IX. Insurance Risk Transfer
X. OSHA Compliance
In going through this plan, please direct any questions to Mohammad ElSawaf & Mark Kraemer.

Robbinsdale Area School ISD 281 Workers Compensation Risk Management & Insurance Renewal Key Takeaways for
10/1/2023 to 10/1/2024:
• Despite total exposure payrolls increasing $3,008,331, total premium is down $47,474
o Carrie Johnson confirmed that all new drivers driving for ISD 281 will be contracted out through
Durham, and not on ISD 281's approved drivers. USI to conduct risk management review of current contracts in upcoming weeks per Karylanne Marchand & Ginny Verbrugge through Alissa Pier
• Self-care rate since nurse-line implementation is at 76.2% in 2023, up from 71% in 2022
• 2023-2024 Targeted Risk Management & Service Calendar implementation led to better processes, outcomes:
o August 2023 Nurse Line results in the cost savings of $35,058
o April 2023 Claim Review: 16 closed claims and total reserve reductions of $150,210
o October 2022 Claim Review: 12 closed claims and total reserve reductions of $150,210
o January 2023 Claim Review: 12 claim closures and total reserve reductions of $33,637
o Valuation Review (March 2022): 24 closed claims and total reserve reductions of $81,573
o April 2022: 14 closed claims and reserve reductions of $32,881
o July 2022 Claim Review: 16 closed claims and total reserve reductions of $41,154
o January 2022 Claim Review: 16 closed claims and total reserve reductions of $50,926
• Success Stories - lag time continues to be decreased on claim reporting from 17 days to 8 days, the lowest it has ever been since SFM has written 281 (2023)
• Nurse Care line implementation from 1/1/2023 to 7/31/2023 resulted in direct cost savings of $35,058
• Experience modification drop from 1.37 in 2021 to .96. Experience modification drop from .96 to .93 in 2022.
The current year's success will have tremendous impact on the future retro retention calculation. If the district can achieve losses less than $400,000 for 2023-2024, the district will be in line for a large return. Current incurred is
$217,830 as of 8/10/2023.

23-24 Premium Breakdown:
All in all, the terms provided are quite favorable given the risk profile at ISD 281. Please consult with the School Focus
Group Team at USI on the details of the provided proposal, CSP, Stewardship, and reports.