To: School Board
Re: Strategic Planning process
Creating a new strategic plan
In the fall of 2021, Robbinsdale Area Schools (Rdale) administration began the process of creating a new strategic plan. The previous strategic plan hadn't been modified since 2018, and didn't reflect the changes to public education brought forth by the COVID-19 pandemic or racial upheaval in our community following the murders of George Floyd, Daunte Wright and many others.
In February of 2022, after seeing proposals from multiple strategic planning experts, district administration selected Greenway Strategy Group (GSG) to help lead the process. The news that
GSG was selected for this work was included in the March 1, 2022, Direct Line, which was delivered to district staff and School Board members. Then, on March 7, 2022, Superintendent David
Engstrom and Martha Greenway presented an update to the School Board, which included an outline of GSG's history of strategic planning work as well as an overview of their proposed work for Rdale.
Steering committee
In late March, a 19-member Strategic Plan Steering Committee was formed, which included seven district parents, a number of district staff members, and two School Board directors, Helen
Bassett and Greta Evens-Becker. The steering committee met three times (April 19, May 3 and May
26, 2022), and their objective was to help lead the input-gathering phase of the work. Once input was gathered, the committee went on hiatus.
Input and feedback
Input was gathered a number of ways and included a variety of stakeholders. From late March through April 19, 2022, staff, students, parents and guardians, and members of the community were invited to participate in an electronic feedback survey, which was shared multiple times via email, social media, and the district website. In-person feedback opportunities also took place. For students who wanted to share feedback, focus groups were held in school on April 5 and April 6
for those. For staff, parents and guardians, and members of the community, in-person focus groups were held May 10, May 11, May 16 and May 18, 2022, at various locations around the district.
In addition, administrators held conversations in April or May 2022 with the district's parent affinity groups, ReDesign, Legislative Action Coalition (LAC), InterSchool Council (ISC), and Government
Affairs Committee (GAC). Passive input was also sought and collected via email and Let's Talk.

During this process, the district gathered more than 1,000 individual pieces of feedback from various stakeholders, which was then used by GSG to begin creating the framework for the strategic plan.
Creating the framework
At its June 20, 2022, meeting, the School Board approved the strategic plan framework. The framework includes four themes, and a number of associated objectives for each theme. The strategic initiatives, which are branches of objectives, are where the work of the strategic plan is done. Since most objectives have more than one initiative, they're being broken into phases.
Action teams
Beginning in the winter of 2023, Strategic Planning Initiative Action Teams (SPIT teams), made of district staff from various buildings and departments, started working on Phase One initiatives, which were prioritized by the cabinet.
The teams will move on to Phase Two initiatives (which have not yet been chosen) as the Phase
One work is either continued or completed. By 2027, work should have begun on the final phases of the strategic plan.
Continued Progress
SPIT teams continue to plan and, in some cases, carry out their Phase I initiatives. A new online progress dashboard shows the initiatives in progress: one per strategic theme.
The strategic plan, (Re)Discover Rdale, is a call to action to the community. It reflects a reinvigorated district that is committing itself anew to academic achievement, engaged and healthy students, strategic and beneficial partnerships, and stronger investment in the staff who make it all happen.
Communications is designing a brand image for the plan, and will announce it - and introduce the progress dashboard - early in the school year.