Robbinsdale Area Schools
Superintendent Search - Planning Meeting Agenda
January 8, 2024 - Work Session
____ Introductions
____ Review of Process
____ Timeline
____ Vacancy Brochure
• Draft language
• Leadership profile
• Salary verbiage
____ Stakeholder Input
• Qualifications survey
• Focus groups, listening sessions and/or survey groups
• Finalist interviews
____ Role of Current Superintendent
____ School Board Spokesperson
____ In-District Contact Person(s)
____ Review Search Agreement
____ Two Pre-Screening Priorities for the District
____ Questions

Robbinsdale Area Schools - Superintendent Search Timeline
January 8, 2024 (approx. 8:30 pm, Work Session) Planning meeting - Board adopts search timeline, reviews hiring criteria, search procedures, market positioning, and stakeholder involvement
January 17 - February 11, 2024 Stakeholder survey open / focus groups and/or listening sessions conducted (optional)
January 24, 2024 (4:00 pm - will be recorded) MSBA facilitates virtual informational Q&A session
January 17, 2024 - March 6, 2024 MSBA posts opening on websites (MSBA, MASA, EdPost,
Revelus), advertises position vacancy, receives applications, and responds to applicants' inquiries
February 29, March 4 (work session), 5*, Board meets for interview training, and to discuss
12*, 14 or 15, 2024 stakeholder report, interview questions and procedures
(Time TBD, Special Meeting)
March 6, 2024 Application Deadline
March 7 - TBD, 2024 MSBA conducts screening, preliminary verification of references, pre-interviews of recommended applicants
March 8 - TBD, 2024 Board members review applications
March 18 (work session), 21* or 22, 2024 Board meets to determine finalists, interview questions
(Time TBD, Special Meeting)
and procedures; MSBA reviews interview training
April 3, 4, 5, 8, 11, 12 or 16, 2024 Board conducts first round of interviews
(Time TBD and Time TBD, Special Meeting)
April 11, 12, 16, 17 or 18*, 2024 Board conducts reference checks and holds second
(Time TBD, Special Meeting)
round of interviews; Board selects lone finalist and sets negotiations process
April TBD, 2024 Board committee or designee begins negotiations of
(Time TBD, Special Meeting - if it's a committee)
employment contract with lone finalist
April TBD, 2024 Board meets to approve employment contract
(Time TBD, Regular or Special Meeting)
July 1, 2024 New superintendent reports to work
January 8, 2024

MSBA Executive Search Service
Robbinsdale Area Schools is seeking an exceptional leader to serve as
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools is a northwest
Application Deadline metro district which covers 28 square miles and serves the cities of Brooklyn Center,
To be considered for this position,
Brooklyn Park, Crystal, Golden Valley, New an applicant's completed file must be
Hope, Plymouth, Robbinsdale, and North received by MSBA prior to 11:59 pm
Minneapolis. District Points of Pride and on TBD, 2024.
awards include:
 Ambitious DEI program, including
 Diverse population brings multiple award-winning DEI newsletter, equity perspectives to the district teams at all sites (funded two years
 Bridge2Learn supports literacy running by the Minneapolis Foundation),
 School Based Mental Health Therapists and equity-focused video series
 Advanced Placement and AVID
 The 2023 district graduation rate was
 Recognized International Baccalaureate higher than the state average
(IB) Primary, Middle Years and Diploma
 Some of our schools have outdoor
Programmes classrooms, medicine gardens and a
 Career Technical Education (CTE)
recording studio opportunities for students
 Three Full Service Community Schools:
 Strong partnerships with community
Cooper High School, Robbinsdale Middle organizations
School, Sandburg Middle School/Highview
 District leaders meet with elected
 Community Education programming:
officials and city leaders monthly to
School-Age Care, Youth Development/
share updates
Enrichment, Adult Academic Program
The school district operates its own food
 Strong High School Athletics and Fine Arts service program and contracts out for programs, including Adapted sports transportation services.
 Robust summer programs offered throughout the district including credit
Search Timeline recovery, enrichment, and care
Announce Vacancy TBD, 2024
 Robbinsdale Redesign Family Services
Application Deadline TBD, 2024
Collaborative provides resources for
Applicant Screening TBD, 2024
restorative practices, mental health, and
First Round Interviews TBD, 2024
wraparound supports
Second Round Interviews TBD, 2024
 Award-winning journalism program at
Approve Contract TBD, 2024
Robbinsdale Cooper High School
Superintendent Begins July 1, 2024

Leadership Profile
The Robbinsdale Area School Board seeks a superintendent who is a person of integrity with high standards of honesty, ethics, and personal conduct who:
 Has knowledge of and experience with equity leadership challenges and opportunities, who ensures and inspires a culture that believes in and achieves high academic standards for all students
 Uses data to address the achievement gaps that exist between student groups and academic excellence resulting from racism, classism, xenophobia, and other expressions of historic and current discrimination
 Has a strong understanding of school finance and the ability to oversee, monitor and maintain stability within the budget
 Exemplifies true leadership by setting high expectations, delegating and motivating while maintaining accountability, all with a thorough knowledge of and successful experience in sound management practices and strong human relations ability
 Is a creative, visionary leader who is attentive to staff morale and has a proven ability in building an effective management team engaged in collaborative planning, problem solving, and decision making
 Is skilled as an articulate, straightforward communicator with strong interpersonal skills and demonstrated ability to work tactfully, creatively and visibly with board members; administration; teachers and staff; students; parents; community and elected officials
 Collaborates with faculty and community members, responds to diverse community interests and needs, and mobilizes community resources and has the ability to maximize financial and human resources
 Has a commitment to strong, positive board/superintendent relations and brings experience as a leader who keeps the board fully informed and current with matters about the schools and provides options and recommendations
 Works with the School Board, staff and community to create a tangible plan for attaining the vision and creates the appropriate processes and environment to inspire others toward the district's shared vision and educational priorities
Previous superintendent experience is preferred.
ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS MISSION STATEMENT
Our mission is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Robbinsdale Area Schools Vision Statement
Robbinsdale Area Schools is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated skilled trades and college ready. We believe each student has limitless possibilities and we strive to ignite the potential in every student. We expect high intellectual performance from all our students. We are committed to ensuring an equitable and respectful educational experience for every student, family and staff member.
Salary and Benefits
District Financial Highlights
TBD
 General Fund Revenue: $ 202,324,363
 General Fund Expenditures: $ 201,529,331
 Unreserved Fund Balance: $ 12,697,815
 Total General Fund Balance: $ 16,868,348
Screening Team
A team from the Minnesota School
By the Numbers
Boards Association's Executive Search
 Student enrollment: 10,321
Service (MSBA) has been selected to
 Licensed staff members: 699
assist the School Board in securing
 Non-licensed staff members: 854
and screening applicants. The search
 Principals/Asst Principals or Deans: 19/24
team will be led by Barb Dorn, MSBA
 Full-time District Office staff: 10
 District buildings maintained: 23 Director of Leadership Development and Executive Search.
Deadline and Selection
MSBA's Executive Search Service uses an online application process. Applicants begin the application process at mnmsba.myrevelus.com. To be considered for this position, an applicant's completed file must be received by MSBA prior to 11:59 pm on TBD, 2024.
Questions can be directed to MSBA's Robbinsdale Area's Superintendent Search Team:
• Barb Dorn, bdorn@mnmsba.org or 507-508-5501
• John Ward, jward@mnmsba.org or 507-479-0935
• Craig Morris, cmorris@mnmsba.org or 612-834-0594
Applicants are requested to not contact school board members.
Robbinsdale Area Schools is an equal opportunity employer. The MSBA Executive
Search Service is an equal opportunity search agency.
Deadline to apply: TBD 2024

ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS: SUPERINTENDENT QUALIFICATIONS
INSTRUCTIONS: Read the list provided below. Choose the SIX items you feel are the most important traits or skills the next Superintendent must possess.
1 A "people person" with proven abilities in human relations and communications
2 A visionary, creative thinker 3
3 Acts with honesty and in an ethical manner with the School Board, staff, and community 4
4 Delegates authority while maintaining accountability
5 Develops and directs an effective leadership team 4
6 Develops trust and works collaboratively with diverse groups of stakeholders 2
7 Effectively mediates and accommodates different perspectives; values teamwork 1
8 Experience in fundraising and/or grant writing
9 Experience in implementing educational priorities 4
10 Experience in managing transition
11 Experience in school district management practices 2
12 Experience in school finance 3
13 Familiar with state and federal education laws
14 Follows the School Board's chosen educational philosophy which reflects the community's values
15 Keeps up on changes in legislation and helps the School District engage the legislative process
16 Knowledge of and experience with equity leadership challenges and opportunities 5
17 Knowledge of and experience with negotiations and the collective bargaining process 1
Knowledge of and experience with special education needs
18 2
19 Knowledge of technology and web-based education curricula
20 Maintains a good working relationship with the media
21 Possesses a strong academic background with experience in curriculum 1
22 Promotes business and community involvement in schools
23 Provides written, understandable administrative procedures that implement School Board policy 2
24 Understands the effects of poverty on student learning and achievement 1
25 Uses curriculum and other resources to improve test scores 2
26 Visible and accessible to the School Board, staff, students, parents, and community 2
27 Works cooperatively with the School Board; provides options and recommendations 3
It is important that the next superintendent has previous experience as a superintendent: Yes 6 No 1

Vacancy brochure - salary language options
The current superintendent's base salary for the 2023-24 school year is
$XXX,XXX. A competitive compensation and benefits package will be negotiated commensurate with experience and qualifications. Contract length is negotiable as provided in Minnesota statute.
A competitive compensation and benefits package, with a minimum salary of
$XXX,XXX, will be negotiated commensurate with experience and qualifications. Contract length is negotiable as provided in Minnesota statute.
A competitive compensation and benefits package, with a salary range of
$XXX,XXX-$XXX,XXX, will be negotiated commensurate with experience and qualifications. Contract length is negotiable as provided in Minnesota statute.
A competitive compensation and benefits package will be negotiated commensurate with experience and qualifications. The contract length is negotiable as provided in Minnesota statute.

23-24 Health
District Name ADMS Salary Vacation or PTO Insurance 403(b) Contribution Holidays Sick pay
Robbinsdale Area 11,098 $232,009 50 days PTO 100% district match up to 3% 12 days -
Wayzata 11,841 $250,050 28 days $8,234 single/$18,254 family 6% or $15,000 11 days 16 days
Hopkins 6,934 $243,033 28 days 100% district $7,500 10 days 18 days
Osseo 20,403 $252,000 30 days 100% district $10,000 12 days 15 days
Minnetonka 11,228 $275,000 30 days $32,400 match up to 2% + $5,000 13 days 18 days
Richfield 4,102 $238,000 25 days Same as district's management team $ for $ up to allowed max 12 days 13 days
St. Louis Park 4,449 $210,904 30 days $7,980 single/$21,780 family $7,500 12 days 12 days
Edina 8,364 $227,300 25 days $7,511 single/$21,168 family $6,500 as designated 15 days
Additional benefits provided by some districts:
· Dental / Life / Long-term disability insurance
· Personal / bereavement days
· Relocation / car / phone allowances
· VEBA/other retirement plans
· HSA / HRA / Deferred compensation plan
· Retention bonus

Superintendent Search Survey
The School Board of the Robbinsdale Area School District is conducting a search for its next superintendent, and stakeholder input is now being requested. The Minnesota School Boards
Association (MSBA) has been contracted to assist with the search and will summarize stakeholder comments for presentation to the
School Board (all responses to the survey will remain anonymous).
Information from this survey will provide valuable input for the Board to consider as they move forward in selecting the next superintendent. Please complete and return this survey by February 11, 2024, to the district office at 4148 Winnetka Ave North, New
Hope, MN 55427.
Thank you for your participation!
Please select the title or role that best reflects the underlying basis or foundation for your responses. Select one response.
Business Owner/District Partner
Community Member
Parent/Guardian/Caregiver
Staff Member
Student
Other (please specify)
How would you identify your race? Select one response.
American Indian or Indigenous
Asian
Black or African American
Hispanic/Latino
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander
Two or more races
White
Other
I prefer not to disclose
1

Read the list provided below. From this list, choose the top six areas of expertise you believe the next superintendent must possess. Leave the remaining choices blank.
Budget and Finance
Business Partnerships
Collaborative Leadership
Contract Administration and Negotiations
Cultural Competence
Curriculum Development/Evaluation
Declining/Increasing Enrollment
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Fundraising/Grant Writing
Oversight Special Education
Personnel Management
Public Relations
School Facility Oversight
School Reform (i.e., strategic planning, etc.)
Student Testing Results and Achievement
Support Services
Technology
Read the list provided below. From this list, choose the top six personal characteristics you believe the next superintendent must have. Leave the remaining choices blank.
Confident
Consistent
Creative
Effective Communicator
Empathetic
Enthusiastic
Flexible
Honest and Ethical
Inclusive
Influential
Intellectual
Personable
Problem Solver
Resourceful
Sense of Humor
Tenacious
Transparent
It is important that the next superintendent have previous experience as a superintendent:
Yes No
2

Read the list provided below. From this list, choose the top six most important traits or skills the next superintendent must possess. Leave the remaining choices blank.
A "people person" with proven abilities in human relations and communications
A visionary, creative thinker
Acts with honesty and in an ethical manner with the School Board, staff, and community
Delegates authority while maintaining accountability
Develops and directs an effective leadership team
Develops trust and works collaboratively with diverse groups of stakeholders
Effectively mediates and accommodates different perspectives; values teamwork
Experience in fundraising and/or grant writing
Experience in implementing educational priorities
Experience in managing transition
Experience in school district management practices
Experience in school finance
Familiar with state and federal education laws
Follows the School Board's chosen educational philosophy which reflects the community's values
Keeps up on changes in legislation and helps the School District engage the legislative process
Knowledge of and experience with equity leadership challenges and opportunities
Knowledge of and experience with negotiations and the collective bargaining process
Knowledge of and experience with special ed needs
Knowledge of technology and web-based education curricula
Maintains a good working relationship with the media
Possesses a strong academic background with experience in curriculum
Promotes business and community involvement in schools
Provides written, understandable administrative procedures that implement School
Board policy
Understands the effects of poverty on student learning and achievement
Uses curriculum and other resources to improve test scores
Visible and accessible to the School Board, staff, students, parents, and community
Works cooperatively with the School Board; provides options and recommendations
3

Please read and respond to the following questions:
1. What are some of the good things taking place in Robbinsdale Area Schools today?
2. What challenges do you see ahead for the District over the next five years?
4

3. What does the new superintendent need to know about the history of the school district and community to be successful?
4. Please provide any additional comments below:
Please call Barb at 507-508-5501 if you have any questions regarding this survey. Thank you!
5

Sahanminta Kormeeraha
Guddiga Dugsiyada Dadweynaha ee Aagga St. Louis Park ayaa wada baaritaan lagu raadinayo maamulaha xiga iyagoo Saamilayda ka codsaday inay aragtidooda ku biiriyaan. Guddiga Minnesota School
Boards Association (MSBA) ayaa qandaraas lagu siiyay inay gacan ka geystaan raadinta waxayna talooyinka u soo bandhigi doonaan Guddiga
Dugsiga (dhammaan jawaabaha sahanka waxay ahaan doonaan qarsoodi).
Xogta sahankani waxay siin doontaa tallooyin dhaxalgal ah oo Guddigu ay tixgaliyaan xulashada kormeeraha xiga. Fadlan buuxi oo ku soo celi sahminan Febraayo 11, 2024, xafiiska degmada ee 4148 Winnetka Ave North, New Hope, MN 55427.
Waad ku mahadsan tahay ka qayb qaadashadaada!
Fadlan dooro ciwaanka ama doorka sida ugu wanaagsan uga tarjumaya aasaaska jawaabahaaga. Hal jawaab kaliya isticmaal.
Mulkiilaha ganacsiga/Dammaane Degmada
Xubinta bulshada
Waarid/Mas'uul/Xanaaneeye
Xubin shaqaale
Arday
Mid kale (fadlan sheeg)
Sidee u tilmaami jinsiyaddaada? Hal jawaab kaliya isticmaal.
Hindi Maraykan ah ama asal ahaan
Aasiyaan
Afrikaan ama Afrikaan Ameerikaan ah
Hisbaanik ama Latino
Dhaladka Hawaii ama Jasiiradaha Baasifigga
Jjinsiyado badan
Midab cad
Mid kale (fadlan sheeg)
Waxaan doortay inaan caddayn
1

Akhriso qoraalka hoosta lagu soo bandhigay. Qoraalkan, ka dooro lixda goobood ee ugu sarreeya ee khibradda aad aaminsan tahay in kormeeraha xiga lahaado. Inta kale ha bannaanaadaan.
Yaqaan miisaaniyada iyo Maaliyadda
Yaqaan ganacsiyada
Leh hogaamin wada shaqayneed
Leh khibrad maamul iyo wada xaajoodka
Ticgaliya dhaqammada kala duwan
Aqoon u leh hormarinta/qiimaynta manhajka
Og hoos u dhaca/kordhinta diiwaangelinta
Tixgaliya kala duwanaashaha, sinnaanta, iyo ka mid ahaanshaha
Yaqaan deeq aruurin/qoridda qoraallada deeq raadineed
Kormeerka baahiyaha waxbarashada gaarka ah
Maamuli kara shaqaalaha
Leh xirfadda xiriirka dadwaynaha
Kormeerka xarunta dugsiga
Dib u habaynta dugsiga (sida, qorshaynta la lafaguray, iwm.)
La sodda Natiijooyinka Imtixaannada Ardayga iyo Guulahooda
Og Adeegyada taageeridda
Yaqaan Tignaloojiyadda
Hoos ka akhriso liiska lagu siiyey. Liiskan, ka dooro lixda astaamood ee ugu sarreeya ee aad aaminsan tahay in kormeeraha xiga leeyahay. Ha bannaanaadaan inta soo haray.
Kalsooni
Joogto ah
Hal abuur leh
Xiriiriye wax ku ool ah
Naxariis leh
Xamaasad leh
Dabacsanaan
Daacadnimo iyo anshax
Aan aragtidiisa ku dhaganayn
Saamayn leh
Waxgarad ah
Qofnimo leh
Dhibaato xaliye ah
Siyaabo kala duwan faa'iido u leh
Danqasho leh
Adkaysi leh
Hufan
Waa muhiim in kormeeraha soo socdaa uu waayo-aragnimo hore u leeyahay xilka kormeere:
Haa Maya
1

Hoos ka akhriso liiska lagu siiyey. Liiskan, ka dooro lixda dabeecadood ee ugu muhiimsan ama xirfadaha kormeeraha xiga lehaan karayo. Ha bannaanaadaan doorashooyinka soo haray.
"Qof dadnimo leh" leh karti la xaqiijiyay xagga xiriirka aadamaha iyo isgaarsiinta
Hal-abuur iyo aragti dheer leh
Si daacadnimo iyo hab anshax leh ula dhaqma Guddiga Dugsiga, shaqaalaha, iyo bulshada
Daadajiya awoodaha iyadoo la ilaalinayo isla xisaabtanka
Hormarinta iyo hagaajinta koox hoggaamineed oo waxtar leh
Horumariyaa kalsoonida si wada jir ahna ula shaqeeyaa kooxaha kala duwan ee daneeyayaasha ah
Si wax ku ool ah u dhexdhexaadiyaa una dejiyaa aragtiyo kala duwan; qiimeeyaana shaqada kooxeed
Khibrad u leh lacag ururinta iyo/ama qoraallada deeqaha
Waayo-aragnimo u leh fulinta mudnaanta waxbarashada
Waayo-aragnimo u leh maaraynta isbadalka
Waayo-aragnimo u leh maaraynta isbadalka
Khibrad u leh dhaqaalaha dugsiga
Aqoon u leh sharciyada waxbarashada gobolka Minnesota iyo federaalka
Wuxuu raacaa falsafada waxbarasho ee ay doorteen guddiga dugsiga taasoo ka tarjumaysa aragtida bulshada
Wuxuu sii wadaa isbeddellada sharciga wuxuuna ka caawiyaa Degmo-dugsiyeedka habraaca sharci-dejinta
Aqoon iyo waayo-aragnimo u leh caqabadaha hoggaanka sinaanta iyo fursadaha
Aqoon, khibrad gorgortan iyo habka gorgortanka wadareed leh
Aqoon iyo waayo-aragnimo u leh baahiyaha waxbarashada gaarka ah iyo/ama urur arday kala duwan ka tirsan yihiin
Leh aqoonta tignoolajiyada iyo manhajka waxbarasho ee ku salaysan mareegaha
Wuxuu ilaaliyaa xiriirka wada shaqaynta wanaagsan ee warbaahinta
Leh asal aqooneed oo xooggan iyo khibrad manhajeed
Wuxuu kor u qaadaa ka qaybgalka ganacsiga iyo bulshada ee dugsiyada
Wuxuu bixiyaa habraac maamul oo qoran, oo la fahmi karo oo hirgeliya siyaasadda
Guddiga Dugsiga
Wuxu fahmayaa saamaynta faqrigu ku leeyahay waxbarashada iyo guulaha ardayda
Wuxuu adeegsadaa manhajka iyo agabka kale si uu u horumariyo buundooyinka imtixaanka
Ah qof ay heli karaan Guddiga Dugsiga, shaqaalaha, ardayda, waalidiinta, iyo bulshada
Si wada jir ah ula shaqeeya Guddiga Dugsiga; bixiyaana fursado iyo talooyin
2

fadlan akhri oo kajawaab su'aalahaan soo socda:
1. Waa maxay waxyaalaha wanaagsan ee ka dhacaya Dugsiyada Dadwaynaha ee Robbinsdale maanta?
2. Maxaa caqabado oo aad aragtaa mustaqbalka in degmadu ay yeelan doonto shanta sano ee soo socota?
3

3. Muxuu u baahan yahay kormeeraha cusub inuu ka ogaado taariikhda degmada iyo bulshada si uu u guuleysto?
4. Fadlan nala wadaag wixii faallooyin dheeraad ah halkan hoose:
Fadlan ka wac Barb 507-508-5501 haddii aad wax su'aalo ah ka qabto sahamintan. Mahadsanid!
4

Encuesta de búsqueda del superintendente
La Junta Escolar de las Escuelas Públicas de Robbinsdale está
realizando una búsqueda de su próximo superintendente y ahora se solicita la opinión de las partes interesadas. La Asociación de Juntas
Escolares de Minnesota (MSBA) ha sido contratada para ayudar con la búsqueda y resumirá los comentarios de las partes interesadas para presentarlos a la Junta Escolar (todas las respuestas a la encuesta permanecerán anónimas).
La información de esta encuesta proporcionará información valiosa para que la Junta la considere a medida que avanza en la selección del próximo superintendente. Complete y devuelva esta encuesta antes del 11 de febrero de 2024 a donde lo recogiste o a la oficina del Distrito al 4148 Winnetka Ave North, New Hope, MN 55427.
¡Gracias por su participación!
Seleccione el título o función que mejor refleje la base o fundamento subyacente de sus respuestas. Seleccione solo una respuesta.
Propietario de Negocio/ Compañero de distrito
Miembro de la comunidad
Padre/ Guardián
Empleado del distrito
Estudiante
Otro (especifíquese)
¿Cómo identificaría su raza? Seleccione solo una respuesta.
Indio(a) Americano(a) o Indígeno(a)
Asiático(a)
De Raza Negra, Afroamericano(a)
Hispano(a), Latino(a)
Nativo(a), Hawaiano(a), Isleño(a) del Pacífico
Dos o mas razas
Blanco(a), Caucásico(a)
Otro (especifíquese)
Prefiero no revelar
1

Lea la lista que se proporciona a continuación. De esta lista, elija las seis áreas principales de experiencia que cree que debe poseer el próximo superintendente. Deje las opciones restantes en blanco.
Presupuesto y Finanzas
Asociaciones comerciales
Liderazgo colaborativo
Administración y negociaciones de contratos
Competencia cultural
Desarrollo curricular / Evaluación
Disminución / aumento de la inscripción
Diversidad, Equidad e Inclusión
Recaudación de fondos / Escritura de subvención
Supervisión de Educación especial
Gestión de personal
Relaciones públicas
Supervisión de las instalaciones escolares
Reforma escolar (es decir, planificación estratégica, etc.)
Resultados y logros de las pruebas de los estudiantes
Servicios de apoyo
Tecnología
Lea la lista que se proporciona a continuación. De esta lista, elija las seis características personales principales que cree que debe tener el próximo superintendente. Deje las opciones restantes en blanco.
Confiado(a)
Consistente
Creativo(a)
Comunicador(a) eficaz
Empático(a)
Entusiasta
Flexible
Honesto(a) y ético(a)
Inclusivo(a)
Influyente
Intelectual
Amable
Solucionador(a) de problemas
Ingenioso (a)
Sentido del humor
Tenaz
Transparente
Es importante que el próximo superintendente tenga experiencia previa como superintendente:
Sí No
2

Lea la lista que se proporciona a continuación. De esta lista, elija los seis rasgos o habilidades más importantes que debe poseer el próximo superintendente. Deje las opciones restantes en blanco.
Una persona que es buena con la gente con habilidades probadas en las relaciones humanas y las comunicaciones
Un pensador visionario y creativo
Actúa con honestidad y de manera ética con la Junta Escolar, el personal y la comunidad
Delega autoridad sin dejar de rendir cuentas
Desarrolla y dirige un equipo de liderazgo eficaz
Desarrolla la confianza y trabaja en colaboración con diversos grupos de partes interesadas
Media eficazmente y se adapta a diferentes perspectivas; valora el trabajo en equipo
Experiencia en recaudación de fondos y / o redacción de subvenciones
Experiencia en la implementación de prioridades educativas
Experiencia en la gestión de la transición
Experiencia en prácticas de gestión del distrito escolar
Experiencia en finanzas escolares
Familiarizado con las leyes educativas estatales y federales
Sigue la filosofía educativa elegida por la Junta Escolar que refleja los valores de la comunidad
Se mantiene al día con los cambios en la legislación y ayuda al Distrito Escolar a participar en el proceso legislativo
Conocimiento y experiencia con los desafíos y oportunidades de liderazgo de equidad
Conocimiento y experiencia en las negociaciones y el proceso de negociación colectiva
Conocimiento y experiencia con necesidades especiales de educación
Conocimiento de la tecnología y los planes de estudios educativos basados en la web
Mantiene una buena relación de trabajo con los medios
Posee una sólida formación académica con experiencia en el plan de estudios
Promueve la participación empresarial y comunitaria en las escuelas
Proporciona procedimientos administrativos escritos y comprensibles que implementan la política de la Junta Escolar
Comprende los efectos de la pobreza en el aprendizaje y el rendimiento de los estudiantes
Utiliza el plan de estudios y otros recursos para mejorar los puntajes de las pruebas
Visible y accesible para la Junta Escolar, el personal, los estudiantes, los padres y la comunidad
Trabaja en cooperación con la Junta Escolar; proporciona opciones y recomendaciones
3

Por favor, lea y responda las siguientes preguntas:
1. ¿Cuáles son algunas de las cosas buenas que suceder hoy en dia en las Escuelas Públicas de
Robbinsdale?
2. ¿Qué desafíos ve Ud. para el Distrito en los próximos cinco años?
4

3. ¿Qué necesita saber el nuevo superintendente sobre la historia del distrito escolar y la comunidad para tener éxito?
Por favor, limite cualquier comentario adicional al espacio que se proporciona a continuación:
Llame a Barb al 507-508-5501 si tiene alguna pregunta sobre esta encuesta. ¡Gracias!
Devolver donde lo recogiste
5

STAKEHOLDER INPUT
Stakeholder Input
Several stakeholder involvement-related opportunities are included in the search package, including:
• an online survey, open to all staff, parents, students, community members, and district stakeholders
 This survey will include gathering quantitative information regarding stakeholder priorities for candidate background, skill set, experience, and personal characteristics.
 It will also include gathering qualitative information through several open-ended questions regarding the opportunities and challenges facing Robbinsdale Area Schools, and what type of individual could most effectively lead the district.
 This survey will be offered in multiple languages per the district's request, as well as hard copies to ensure access for those unable or uninterested in taking the survey electronically.
• an informational Q&A session for staff and community members regarding the superintendent search process. This session is hosted virtually by MSBA, and is recorded to ensure all district stakeholders have access to accurate information regarding search processes and expectations. The recording will then be made available on the district website throughout the duration of the search. Launched two years ago, these proprietary Q&A with MSBA sessions have proven to be one of the most effective tools a district can utilize to increase both the credibility and transparency of their search, and to limit toxic misinformation. Through leveraging the power of sharing information, these unique Q&A sessions have solidified MSBA's reputation as a provider of clear, accessible, and stakeholder-inclusive superintendent search services.
• finally, stakeholder Input Forums with finalists may be offered in conjunction with the second round of interviews. Several options regarding the structure of Input Forums will be provided to the board for consideration, along with a review of the opportunities and pitfalls tied to involving stakeholders in the interview process. If selected as an option, MSBA will also train Input Forum participants to ensure adherence to all legal requirements involved in the superintendent search process.
A la carte Option
Another option for the school board to consider in gathering stakeholder input early in the process is through holding Focus Groups and/or Listening Sessions across multiple stakeholder constituencies. These group sessions are a traditional methodology still utilized by some search firms as their primary source of stakeholder input; however, these sessions must be carefully designed and implemented. MSBA will conduct them if requested, in addition to the services outlined above. The board should consider, though, the value of 24/7
stakeholder access to the survey as the initial (and sole) early feedback opportunity- the availability and anonymity of the survey may contrast significantly with the tendency of group sessions to amplify some voices over others, and the inequities which can result from stakeholder access (or lack thereof) to participate. The decision of why and how to conduct group sessions must be carefully considered by the school board before initiating a search, and MSBA will guide this conversation at the planning meeting to ensure the best possible and most equitable decision is made regarding stakeholder input for your district's superintendent search process.
NOTE: If requested, MSBA's a la carte fee to conduct group sessions is $1,395 per day or $300 per group.
3

ESTIMATED FEE FOR SERVICE
The estimated professional fee for this search process facilitation proposal shall not exceed $22,500, which includes the MSBA search team's time and all expenses, as well as national advertising and in-person attendance at all search-related activities. This fee also includes in-depth background checks of all semi-finalists and finalists, comprised of national criminal background checks as well as verification of employment, educational credentials, and professional licensure.
Additional fees the school district may incur above the professional fee include any school board member stipends or expenses associated with finalists' interviews (i.e. travel and lodging for candidates). Also, as itemized earlier in this proposal, Focus Groups and/or Listening Sessions are available for an a la carte fee of
$1,395 per day or $300 per group. These a la carte options shall be added to the search process solely at the discretion of the school board.
NOTE: MSBA does not charge for consultant travel, attendance at interviews, transition services, initial or ongoing support of the new board team, or the Transition Workshop.
In addition, on the following page is an overview of MSBA's "Hiring the Right Superintendent" which is available upon request at no additional charge to the district.
The level of services and fee included in this proposal are negotiable based on the school board's needs.
Satisfaction Guarantee
MSBA will conduct Robbinsdale Area Schools' superintendent search from a strong school board perspective, and with impartiality and professionalism while focusing on the school board's identified hiring criteria.
If, at any time during the first year of the new superintendent's contract the school board releases the superintendent, MSBA will conduct a second superintendent search for no additional fee. However, the school board would be responsible for new direct expenses, if any, incurred by MSBA for the second search.
NOTE: this guarantee is contingent upon the district's participation in MSBA's Transition Workshop offered as part of our search package (this workshop must be held within six months after the new superintendent begins work in the school district). MSBA believes clarifying expectations for a new superintendent is crucial to their success, and therefore we require the Transition Workshop be held as part of this search guarantee.
13

Two screening priorities (Sample application questions)
1. Please describe your approach to building strong relationships with multiple stakeholder groups within both the school district and communities.
2. Please describe what you feel are the necessary components of a successful referendum campaign, and why these components are integral to that success.
3. Share your experience or philosophy about managing school facilities.
4. How would you handle the challenges of open enrollment?
5. Describe your knowledge and experience relating to school district finances and responsibilities.
6. Elaborate on your approach to building a successful administrative team and the tools you employ to engage the team and the school district community?
7. How has the pandemic affected your understanding of K-12 public education and its effect on student achievement?
8. What are the roles of School Board members and the Superintendent in the strategic planning process, and what has been your experience in creating and implementing strategic plans?
9. How will you lead to ensure the diverse backgrounds of all members in our school community will be heard and included?
10. How would you summarize your vision for the future of education, and how would you define the role of a superintendent in today's ever-changing educational systems?
11. Share how you have enhanced curriculum in the district you are working in, and how you have developed or implemented innovative programs.
12. Share an initiative that you are most proud of leading or being a part of within your district. Explain what your role was, and what the impact was on students.