Robbinsdale Area Schools
Independent School District 281
Adopted: 9/16/2013
Revised: July 25, 2023
Approved: August 7, 2023
Revised and Approved: November 4, 2024
620.1 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE - CREDIT FOR LEARNING
I. PURPOSE
This policy recognizes student achievement that occurs in post secondary enrollment options and other advanced enrichment programs. This policy also recognizes student achievement that occurs in other schools, in alternative learning sites, and in out-of-school experiences such as community organizations, work-based learning, and other educational activities and opportunities. This policy also addresses transfer of student credit from out-of-state, private, or home schools and online learning programs and to address how the school district will recognize student achievement obtained outside of the school district.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT
The policy of the school district and this administrative procedure is to provide a process for awarding students credit toward graduation requirements for credits and grades students complete in other schools, post secondary or higher education institutions, and online courses and programs.
III. DEFINITIONS
A. "Accredited school" means a school that is accredited by an accrediting agency, recognized according to Minn. Stat. § 123B.445 or recognized by the Commissioner of the Minnesota
Department of Education (MDE).
B. "Concurrent enrollment" means nonsectarian courses in which an eligible pupil under subdivision 5 or 5b enrolls to earn both secondary and post secondary credits, are taught by a secondary teacher or a post secondary faculty member, and are offered at a high school for which the district is eligible to receive concurrent enrollment program aid under
Minnesota Statutes, section 124D.091.
C. "Course" means a course or program.
D. "Eligible institution" means a Minnesota public post secondary institution, a private,
DRAFT
nonprofit two-year trade and technical school granting associate degrees, an opportunities industrialization center accredited by an accreditor recognized by the United States
Department of Education, or a private, residential, two-year or four-year, liberal arts, degree-granting college or university located in Minnesota. An eligible institution must not require a faith statement from a secondary student seeking to enroll in a post secondary course under this section during the application process or base any part of the admission decision on a student's race, creed, ethnicity, disability, gender, or sexual orientation or religious beliefs or affiliations.

E. "Nonpublic school" is a private school or home school in which a child is provided instruction in compliance with the Minnesota compulsory attendance laws.
F. "Weighted grade" is a letter or numerical grade that is assigned a numerical advantage when calculating the grade point average.
IV. TRANSFER OF CREDIT FROM OTHER SCHOOLS
A. Transfer of Academic Requirements from Other Minnesota Public Secondary Schools
1. The school district will accept and transfer secondary credits and grades awarded to a student from another Minnesota public secondary school upon presentation of a certified transcript from the transferring public secondary school evidencing the course taken and the grade and credit awarded.
2. Credits and grades awarded from another Minnesota public secondary school may be used to compute honor roll and/or class rank on a credit for credit basis.
B. Transfer of Academic Requirements from Other Schools
1. The school district will accept secondary credits and grades awarded to a student for courses successfully completed at a public school outside of Minnesota or an accredited nonpublic school upon presentation of a certified transcript from the transferring public school in another state or nonpublic school evidencing the course taken and the grade and credit awarded.
a. When a determination is made that the content of the course aligns directly with school district graduation requirements, the student will be awarded commensurate credits and grades.
b. Commensurate credits and grades awarded from an accredited nonpublic school or public school in another state may be used to compute honor roll and/or class rank on a credit for credit basis.
c. In the event the content of a course taken at an accredited nonpublic school or public school in another state does not fully align with the content of the school district's high school graduation requirements but is comparable to elective credits offered by the school district for graduation, the student may be provided elective credit applied toward graduation requirements.
Credit that does not fully align with the school district's high school
DRAFT
graduation requirements will not be used to compute honor roll and/or class rank.
d. If no comparable course is offered by the school district for which high school graduation credit would be provided, no credit will be provided to the student.
2. Students transferring from a non-accredited, nonpublic school shall receive credit

from the school district upon presentation of a transcript or other documentation evidencing the course taken and grade and credit awarded.
a. Students will be required to provide copies of course descriptions, syllabi, or work samples for determination of appropriate credit. In addition, students also may be asked to provide interviews/conferences with the student and/or student's parent and/or former administrator or teacher; review of a record of the student's entire curriculum at the nonpublic school; and review of the student's complete record of academic achievement.
b. Where the school district determines that a course completed by a student at a non-accredited, nonpublic school is commensurate with school district graduation requirements, credit shall be awarded, but the grade shall be "P"
(pass).
c. In the event the content of a course taken at an non-accredited, nonpublic school does not fully align with the content of the school district's high school graduation requirements but is comparable to elective credits offered by the school district for graduation, the student may be provided elective credit applied toward graduation requirements.
d. If no comparable course is offered by the school district for which local high school graduation credit would be provided, no credit will be provided to the student.
e. Credit and grades earned from a non-accredited nonpublic school shall not be used to compute honor roll and/or class rank.
C. A student must provide the school with a copy of the student's grades in each course taken for secondary credit under this policy, including interim or non-final grades earned during the academic term.
V. POST SECONDARY ENROLLMENT CREDIT
A. A student who satisfactorily completes a postsecondary enrollment options course or program under Minnesota Statutes, section 124D.09 that has been approved as meeting the necessary requirements is not required to complete other requirements of the academic standards corresponding to that specific rigorous course of study.
DRAFT
B. Secondary credits granted to a student through a post secondary enrollment options course or program must be counted toward the graduation and subject area requirements of the district.
1. Course credit will be considered by the school district only upon presentation of a certified transcript from an eligible institution evidencing the course taken and the grade and credit awarded.

2. Seven quarter or four semester post secondary credits shall equal at least one full year of high school credit. Fewer post secondary credits may be prorated.
3. When a determination is made that the content of the post secondary course aligns directly with a required course for high school graduation, the commensurate credit and grade will be recorded on the student's transcript as a course credit applied toward graduation requirements.
4. In the event the content of the postsecondary course does not fully align with the content of a high school course required for graduation but is comparable to elective credits offered by the school district for graduation, the school district may provide elective credit and the grade will be recorded on the student's transcript as an elective course credit applied toward graduation requirements.
5. If no comparable course is offered by the school district for which high school graduation credit would be provided, the school district will notify the
Commissioner, who shall determine the number of credits that shall be granted to a student.
6. When secondary credit is granted for post secondary credits taken by a student, the school district will record those credits on the student's transcript as credits earned at a post secondary institution.
C. A list of the courses or programs meeting the necessary requirements may be obtained from the school district.
D. By the earlier of (1) three weeks prior to the date by which a student must register for district courses for the following school year, or (2) March 1 of each year, the school district must provide up-to-date information on the district's website and in materials that are distributed to parents and students about the program, including information about enrollment requirements and the ability to earn post secondary credit to all pupils in grades
8, 9, 10, and 11. To assist the school district in planning, a pupil must inform the district by
October 30 or May 30 of each year of the pupil's intent to enroll in postsecondary courses during the following school year academic term. A pupil is bound by notifying or not n notifying the district by October 30 or May 30.
E. Postsecondary institutions must notify a pupil's school as soon as practicable if the pupil withdraws from the enrolled course. The institution must also notify the pupil's school as soon as practicable if the pupil has been absent from a course for ten consecutive days on which classes are held, based on the postsecondary institution's academic calendar, and the
DRAFT
pupil is not receiving instruction in their home or hospital or other facility.
VI. CREDIT FOR EMPLOYMENT WITH HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS
Consistent with the career and technical pathways program, a student in grade 11 or 12 who is employed by an institutional long-term care or licensed assisted living facility, a home and community-based services and supports provider, a hospital or health system clinic, or a child care center may earn up to two elective credits each year toward graduation under Minnesota Statutes,

section 120B.024, subdivision 1, paragraph (a), clause (7), at the discretion of the enrolling school district. A student may earn one elective credit for every 350 hours worked, including hours worked during the summer. A student who is employed by an eligible employer must submit an application, in the form or manner required by the school district, for elective credit to the school district in order to receive elective credit. The school district must verify the hours worked with the employer before awarding elective credit.
VII. ADVANCED ACADEMIC CREDIT
A. The school district will grant academic credit to a student attending an accelerated or advanced academic course offered by a higher education institution or a nonprofit public agency, other than the school district.
B. Course credit will be considered only upon official documentation from the higher education institution or nonprofit public agency that the student successfully completed the course, attended and passed an examination approved by the school district.
C. When a determination is made that the content of the advanced academic course aligns directly with a required course for high school graduation, the commensurate credit and grade will be recorded on the student's transcript as a course credit applied toward graduation requirements.
D. In the event the content of the advanced academic course does not fully align with the content of a high school course required for graduation but is comparable to elective credits offered by the school district for graduation, the school district may provide elective credit and the grade will be recorded on the student's transcript as an elective course credit applied toward graduation requirements.
E. If no comparable course is offered by the school district for which high school graduation credit would be provided, the school district will notify the Commissioner and request a determination of the number of credits that shall be granted to a student.
VIII. WEIGHTED GRADES
Therefore, school districts must include one of the following options in their policies.
A school board must adopt an identical policy regarding weighted grade point averages for credits earned via postsecondary coursework as it gives to credits earned via concurrent enrollment coursework.]
A. The school district does not offer weighted grades.
DRAFT
IX. PROCESS FOR AWARDING CREDIT
A. The building principal will be responsible for carrying out the process to award credits and grades pursuant to this policy. The building principal will notify students in writing of the decision as to how credits and grades will be awarded.
B. A student or the student's parent or guardian may seek reconsideration of the decision by

the building principal as to credits and/or grades awarded upon request of a student or the student's parent or guardian if the request is made in writing to the superintendent within five school days of the date of the building principal's decision. The request should set forth the credit and/or grade requested and the reason(s) why credit(s)/ grade(s) should be provided as requested. Any pertinent documentation in support of the request should be submitted.
C. The decision of the superintendent as to the award of credits or grades shall be a final decision by the school district and shall not be appealable by the student or student's parent or guardian except as set forth in Section VIII.D. below.
D. If a student disputes the number of credits granted by the school district for a particular post secondary enrollment course, or advanced academic credit course, the student may appeal the school district's decision to the Commissioner. The decision of the
Commissioner shall be final.
E. At any time during the process, the building principal or superintendent may ask for course descriptions, syllabi, or work samples from a course where content of the course is in question for purposes of determining alignment with graduation requirements or the number of credits to be granted. Students will not be provided credit until requested documentation is available for review, if requested.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 120B.02 (Educational Expectations for Minnesota's Students) Minn. Stat. §
120B.021 (Required Academic Standards)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.11 (School District Process)
Instruction, and Student Achievement Goals; Striving for Comprehensive Achievement and Civic Readiness)Minn. Stat. § 120B.14 (Advanced Academic Credit)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.14 (Advanced Academic Credit)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.02 (General Powers of Independent School Districts)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.445 (Nonpublic Education Council)
Minn. Stat. § 124D.03, Subd. 9 (Enrollment Options Program)
Minn. Stat. § 124D.09 (Post-Secondary Enrollment Options Act)
Minn. Stat. § 124D.094 (Online Instruction Act)
Minn. Rules Parts 3501.0010-3501.0180 (Graduation Standards - Mathematics and
Reading)
Minn. Rules Parts 3501.0200-3501.0290 (Graduation Standards - Written
Composition)
Minn. Rules Parts 3501.0505-3501.0655 (Academic Standards for Language Arts)
Minn. Rules Parts 3501.0700-3501.0745 (Academic Standards for Mathematics)
Minn. Rules Parts 3501.0800-3501.0815 (Academic Standards for the Arts)
Minn. Rules Parts 3501.0900-3501.0955 (Academic Standards in Science)
DRAFT
Minn. Rules Parts 3501.1000-3501.1190 (Graduation-Required Assessment for Diploma)
Cross References: RAS Policy 104 (School District Mission Statement)
RAS Policy 601 (School District Curriculum and Instruction Goals)
RAS Policy 613 (Graduation Requirements)
RAS Policy 614 (School District Testing Plan and Procedure)
RAS Policy 615 (Testing Accommodations, Modifications, and Exemptions for
IEPs, Section 504 Plans, and LEP Students)

RAS Policy 616 (School District System Accountability)
RAS Policy 618 (Assessment of Student Achievement)
RAS Policy 624 (Online Instruction)
RAS Policy 102.1 (Equity)
DRAFT