Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved October 21, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, October 7, 2024, beginning at 6:02 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the

meeting can be found at: https://www,rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, and Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s)
absent: John Vento. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Approval of the Agenda

Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Evans-Becker moved to accept the agenda, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Superintendent's Report

Superintendent Staloch stated the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community. She further noted Rdale's commitment to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready.

Some highlights of things Superintendent Staloch has seen in the district since our last meeting include:

e Recognizing National Principals Month in October, with gratitude to all of the principals in our district.

e September 27, 2024 was Orange Shirt Day Remembrance Walk at East Medicine Lake Park, hosted by the district's Achievement and Integration team. Members of Rdale's American Indian Advisory Committee (AIPAC), district staff and families, and community members joined to commemorate the American Indian residential school experience and honor the healing journey of all affected.

e September 29-October 1, 2024 Superintendent Staloch attended the Minnesota Association of School
Administrators (MASA) Fall Conference

e October 2, 2024 Superintendent Staloch visited Armstrong High School (AHS)during their visit by the BARR
(Building Assets, Reducing Risks) Center. BARR is a proven model that improves the education system predicated on two pillars - relationships and data, and AHS has done a great job of implementing it.

e October 3, 2024 Superintendent Staloch visited Cooper for a tour with Principal Smith, and Dr. Herman walked her through the Rdale Pathways program.

e October 14, 2024 - Indigenous Peoples' Day was celebrated at three sites, including Robbinsdale Middle School, where Superintendent Staloch and her Cabinet welcomed Willie Jett, Commissioner of Education from the
Minnesota Department of Education (MDE)

e Superintendent Staloch has been attending city council meetings - Robbinsdale welcomed her on October 1, and invited her back again to tell them about the wonderful things happening as we continue to (Re)Discover Rdale

FY23 Audit Report Only

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Bill Lauer from Malloy, Montague, Karnowski, Radosevich (MMKR) & Co. PA.

Ms. Hoheisel and Mr. Lauer provided a final review of the 2022-2023 audit, after which they answered questions from the Board. They recommended moving the final audit report to action for approval at the October 21, 2024 Business
Meeting.

Observations/Recommendations to the Board of Education

Liz Viera from Squires, Waldspurger & Mace, PA.

Ms. Viera presented the following observations and recommendations to the Board:

e The district is student-centered - Board members need to consider the students before they speak, this is the common reason we're here

e Board members need to assume positive intent

e Formalities minimize personalities - the Board needs to:
© go back to Roberts Rules basics

o look to the future (not the past)

© motion and second prior to discussion to keep discussion germain, limited and focused

Transparency - prepare adequately for meetings by reviewing materials and asking questions in advance
Work Session discussions lay foundation for Business Meetings

Write questions down before asking them to make sure they are:

© relevant to students

© germain to the topic

Recommend having only one Work Session and one Business Meeting per month

Recommend watching meeting of high-functioning school boards

Recommend training for the Board to include the role of Board members, limits, Board member authority, etc.
A training session where the Board is not discussing any business that may come before them is not a public meeting, which is why it does not need to be posted. It is not a closed meeting either because a closed meeting is a type of public meeting; it would be appropriate to call this a "retreat" or "training session."

Director Long asked that this information be discussed at the Work Session tonight, and the Board agreed.

October 1, 2024 Enrollment Status Report

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Ms. Hoheisel provided a presentation on the status of district enrollment as of October 1, 2024. She noted that the projected enrollment for K-12 was 10,146, and actual enrollment is 10,366 at this point - representing an increase of
220 students. She intends to monitor the mobility factor, narrow down how things are happening, capture information and get it to the Board throughout the year. At this point some possible impact factors for the increase could be related to the closing of charter schools and changes to the Hopkins district transportation.

Operations
A. Action: Annual Support of Forms A and B Grant Applications to the Minnesota State High Schoo! League

(MSHSL) Foundation

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of both applications, and Director Brooks seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report

Director Holmes provided an update from the Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee held on Thursday,

October 3, 2024. The following items were discussed: emergency response teams, proposed steps from February regarding vape detectors and cameras, and the role of the Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee. The next meeting will be held on November 7, 2024 at 4:30 p.m. and will include review of A Guide to Student Support and
Behavior (student handbook), and feedback regarding the safety presentation from the October 21, 2024
Business Meeting.

Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee Report

The Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee met on Monday, September 25, 2024, and an update was provided in the agenda.

A busing update noting that 92% of last year's drivers returned this year, routes are fully staffed, two of the drivers have been lent to another district, we have 15 drivers in the training pipeline, two routes that had continued issues have been resolved. We are going out for an RFP the week of October 7-14, in publication October 21-28. Bids are due November 4, will be opened November 7 and reviewed November 10. Superintendent Staloch and Carrie
Johnson, Director of Transportation will make a recommendation to the Board on November 18.

Regarding facilities - enrollment is decreasing, districts all around us are doing budget cuts, birthrates are going down. We need to decide as a district what we want, and need to invest in our kids' futures. We need to:

e learn what our kids need

e discuss programming, curriculum, and structures to support what kids need

e have acomprehensive facility assessment completed

We may be operating too many facilities, and need to begin this discussion with the community in January.
Superintendent Staloch's goal is to make Rdale the best district it can be. The next meeting is scheduled for
November 14, 2024 at 5:30 p.m.

Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Report

Chair Bowman reported that the School Board Handbook would be discussed by the Board at the Work Session tonight, after sharing a draft with the Board to review. She and Clerk Evans-Becker worked on it for several hours to add recommended revisions, in an effort to customize it for our Board from the Minnesota School Board's
Association (MSBA) template.

Policy Committee Report

The last Policy Committee meeting was canceled, and the next is scheduled for October 9, 2024 at 6:00 p.m.
The group will continue their work on the 200 series of policies, and are on target to have them completed by the end of the calendar year.

F. Administrative Reports - Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
School Improvement Plans (SIPs)
John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services, said the team met with schools October 1-2 regarding their SIPs. He gave a shout out to the team: Julie Baumeister, Bridget Hall, Matt Pletcher, Beth Tepper, Cheryl
Ulik and Marti Voight. All of the discussions were taped for Superintendent Staloch to review. Last year leadership teams from the sites helped - and focused on monitoring. Curriculum and Instruction (C&l) provided feedback, but the plans from the building are awesome. The team is providing support to those who need it. We will be monitoring the plans, and share progress in January of 2025. Revisions to the SIPs are due October 15, and then will be published online.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items are considered routine in nature and are enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Board member so requests, in which the item will be removed as a Consent
Agenda item, and addressed. Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.

Director Brooks requested that Policy 509 - Enrollment of Non-Resident Students and Policy 601 - School District
Curriculum and Instruction Goals be removed for further discussion regarding adding Policy 102.1 - Equity Policy in the Cross-References section on each.

Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor of the amended consent agenda thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

MOTION: Director Brooks moved approval of Policy 509 with the addition of Policy 102.1, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

MOTION: Director Brooks moved approval of Policy 601 with the addition of Policy 102.1, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjourn the Meeting

MOTION: Director Brooks moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
7:24 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Litvien lpi. Date: Ce ADDL

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281