Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

Ma RoBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting

*"Approved April 15, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, April 2, 2024, beginning at 6:02 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: httos://www,rdale,org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Vento moved to accept the agenda, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Operations
A. Action: Capital Projects Levy
MOTION: Director Vento moved to approve renewal of the Capital Projects Levy on the ballot for vote in the
November 2024 election remaining at the current rate of 4.207%, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
B. Action: Operating Referendum
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval of Option 2: Take Operating Referendum to the voters in the
November 2024 election at the current amount, no one seconded the motion. Director Evans-Becker moved approval of Option 1: Renew the current Operating Referendum at the current level - eliminating the need for vote in election, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken theron, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. The following voted against the same: Director Holmes. Said motion was declared duly passed. The School Board will schedule a public hearing to approve the renewal resolution, providing an opportunity for public feedback.
C. Action: Resolution for Non-Resident Student Enrollment Capacity Limits
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval and waived reading, and Director Brooks seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
D. Non-Action: 2024-2025 School Board Meeting Schedule (draft)
The Board reviewed the first draft of the 2024-2025 meeting schedule, with recommendations to add:
e two scheduled closed sessions for labor negotiations strategy e two scheduled closed sessions for receiving safety and security procedure updates
With those additions, and determining the date for Canvassing the Election results, the schedule will move to action at the April 15, 2024 Business Meeting.
E. Governance Policy Manual Task Force Update
Chair Bowman and Clerk Evans-Becker continue to index and format the School Board Governance Policy
Manual to bring to the Board for feedback.
F. Policy Committee Update
Governance Policy Committee members noted their next meeting would be Tuesday, April 9, 2024.
G. School Safety Update
Director Holmes discussed the following:
e Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee met with police chiefs regarding the change in School Resource
Officer (SRO) legislation - conversation regarding this issue will continue in the Work Session on April 2,
2024, to discuss the possibility of getting SROs back in our secondary schools before the end of the school year e ape detection devices approved for pilot in secondary buildings are costing more than the approved cost
- recommendation is to put them all in at once to save installation costs, an updated bid will be available soon

H. Student Achievement Update
Dr. Cheryl Ulik, Director of Research, Evaluation and Assessment, provided a high level overview of SY23
graduation data, and responded to questions from the Board.

|. Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Update
Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee will be meeting on Wednesday, April 10, 2024 to discuss planning a round table discussion with community members, as well as preliminary discussion regarding going out for a transportation RFP or RFQ.

J. Human Resources (HR) Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of HR, was available to respond to questions regarding the executive summary provided for the staffing update, as well as the Resolution - Proposal Terminating Probationary
Teachers in the Consent Agenda. Her report on April 15 will update the Board on staffing for summer programs.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
6:59 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

\

wfc. oy y ) P / - .
Signed:_ <7 La LEK UL CHORAL Date: of US Bex.

Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, ISD 281