EXTRACT OF MINUTES OF MEETING
OF SCHOOL BOARD
OF INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 281
(ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS)
STATE OF MINNESOTA

HELD: June 17, 2024
Pursuant to due call and notice thereof, a regular meeting of the School Board of
Independent School District No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools), State of Minnesota, was held in the School District on June 17, 2024, at 7:00 o'clock p.m., for the purpose, in part, of establishing

dates for filing affidavits of candidacy for the 2024 School District general election.

The following members were present: DIVECtoVv=: erscctt > Bowman , Books,
Evans-Becicer, Hoimes, Long, and ver and the following were absent: NONC€-

Member BowWwiMAvI introduced the following resolution and moved its adoption: wal ved veadl ng

RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING DATES
FOR FILING AFFIDAVITS OF CANDIDACY

BE IT RESOLVED by the School Board of Independent School District No. 281, State of
Minnesota, as follows:

1. The period for filing Affidavits of Candidacy for the office of school board member of Independent School District No. 281 shall begin on July 30, 2024, and shall close on
August 13, 2024. An Affidavit of Candidacy must be filed in the office of the School District Clerk and the $2 filing fee paid prior to 5:00 o'clock p.m. on August 13, 2024.

2. The Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cause notice of said filing dates to be published in the official newspaper of the School District at least two (2) weeks prior to the first day to file Affidavits of Candidacy. Publication of said notice prior to the date of adoption of this resolution is hereby ratified and approved in all respects.

3. The Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cause notice of said filing dates to be posted at the administrative offices of the School District at least ten (10) days prior to the first day to file Affidavits of Candidacy.

4. The notice of said filing dates shall be in substantially the following form:

NOTICE OF FILING DATES FOR ELECTION TO THE SCHOOL BOARD
INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 281
(ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS)

STATE OF MINNESOTA

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the period for filing Affidavits of Candidacy for the office of School Board member of Independent School District No. 281 shall begin on
July 30, 2024, and shall close at 5:00 o'clock p.m. on August 13, 2024.

The general election shall be held on Tuesday, November 5, 2024. At that election, three
(3) members will be elected to the School Board for terms of four (4) years each.

Affidavits of Candidacy are available from the School District Clerk, Independent School
District No. 281, 4148 Winnetka Ave N., New Hope, MN 55427. The filing fee for this office is
$2. A candidate for this office must be an eligible voter, must be 21 years of age or more on assuming office, must have been a resident of the School District from which the candidate seeks election for thirty (30) days before the general election, and must have no other affidavit on file for any other office at the same primary or general election.

The Affidavits of Candidacy must be filed in the office of the School District Clerk and the filing fee paid prior to 5:00 o'clock p.m. on August 13, 2024.

Dated: June 17, 2024
BY ORDER OF THE SCHOOL BOARD

School District Clerk, Greta Evans-Becker
Independent School District No. 281
(Robbinsdale Area Schools)

State of Minnesota

The motion for the adoption of the foregoing resolution was duly seconded by

Acector Evans~. On aroll call vote, the following voted in favor:
Becker
Divectors: easectl, Gowman, Gooks, EVANS ~ Beccles,
Holmes, Long, and vento

and the following voted against: MONT.

whereupon said resolution was declared duly passed and adopted.

STATE OF MINNESOTA _ )
COUNTY OF HENNEPIN *

I, the undersigned, being the duly qualified and acting Clerk of Independent School District
No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools), State of Minnesota, hereby certify that the attached and foregoing is a full, true and correct transcript of the minutes of a meeting of the school board of said school district duly called and held on the date therein indicated, so far as such minutes relate to establishing dates for filing affidavits of candidacy, and that the resolution included therein is a

full, true and correct copy of the original thereof.

WITNESS MY HAND officially as such clerk this 17th day of June, 2024.

Lhe Cut Lh

"School District Clerk, Greta Evans-Becker

a" Office of the Minnesota Secretary of State Fling,

AFFIDAVIT OF CANDIDACY CasniCheck® __

Amaurt$

Instructions
All information on this form is available to the public. Information provided will be published on the Secretary of State's webstte. If filing for
Partisan office and not a major party candidate, you must file both an affidavit of candidacy and a nominating petition. (Minn. Stat. 2048.03}

Candidate Information

Nome, Office, and Party
Candidate Name (as it will appear on the ballot}

Office Sought District #
Political Party or Principle (State or Federal offices only}

Name of Incumbent (Judicial seats only]

Contact Information

Required (federal judicial, county attorney, and county shenjf candidates are exempt} Check bos if you do not have an email address
Phone number Email {non-government issued)

Address information : ee : oo --

Residence Address Required {unless box is checked: federai, judicial, county attorney, and county sheriff candidates are exempt}
My residence address is to be classified as private data.
| 4 certify a police report has been submitted, an order for protection has been issued, or | have a reasonable fear for my or my family's safety; or my address is otherwise private by Minnesota law. | have attached a seperate form listing my residence address.
Residence Address
Gty State Zip Code

Campaign Contact Information {Address required if bax above is checked)

Campaign Address

Oty State Zip Code

Campaign Website

Affirmation

For all offices, [swear (or affirm) that this is my true name or the name by which | am generally known in the community.

if filing for a state or local office, 1 also swear (or affirm) that:

© | ameligible to vote in Minnesota;

1 have mot filed for the same or any other office at the upcoming primary or general election except as authorized by Minn. Stat. 2046.06, subd. 9;
1am, of will be on assuming office, 21 years of age or more;

| will have maintained residence in this district for at least 30 days before the general election; and

Ifa major political party candidate, | either partiapated in the party's most recent precinct caucuses or intend to vote for a majority of that party's candidates at the next general election.

if filing for one of the following offices, t also swear (or affirm] that | meet the requirements listed below:

* United States Senator -{ will be an inhabitant of this state when elected and | will be at least 30 years old and a citizen of the United States for not less than nine years on the next January 3rd, or if filled at special election, within 21 days after the election.

© United States Representative - | will be an inhabitant of this state when elected and | will be at least 25 years old and a citizen of the United
States for not less than seven years on the next January 3ed, or if fled at special election, within 21 days after the election.

¢ Goverer or Lieutenant Governar - ! will be at least 25 years old on the first Monday of the next January and a resident of Minnesota for not less than one year on election day. | am filing jointly with

© Supreme Court Justice, Court of Appeals Judge, District Court Judge, or County Attorney -¢ am leamed in the law end licensed to practice law in Minnesota. Ky Minnesota attomey license number is anda copy of my license is attached.

© Supreme Court Justice, Court of Appeals Judge, or District Court judge - | will not turn 70 years of age before the first Monday of next January.

* State Senator or State Representative -1 will have maintained residence in Minnesota not less than one year and in this district for six months on the day of the general or special efaction.

® County Sheriff -| ama licensed peace officer in Ntinnesota. My Board of Peace Officer Standards and Training license number is

and a copy of my license is attached.
« School Board Member -| have net been convicted of an offense for which registration is required under Minn. Stat. 243.166.
*® County, Municipal, School District, ar Special District Office - | meet any other qualifications for that office prescribed by law.

candidate Signature. Date
Subscribed and sworn to before me this day of 20.

Notery public or other officer empowered ta take and certify acknowledgement (Notary stamp)

Rev

Office of the Minnesota Secretary of State

ADDRESS OF RESIDENCE FORM

Instructions
This form is to be attached to the Affidavit of Candidacy when a candidate has checked the Private Data box.

The address of residence is classified a5 private data at the request of the candidate. The address of residence is used by the filing officer who received the affidavit of candidacy, upon written request of a registered voter, to determine whether the address of residence listed by the candidate is actually located in the area represented by the office sought, pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 2048.06, subd. 1b (b]. While the candidate is not required to provide the address of residence, failure to provide the address of residence will result in an incomplete affidavit of candidacy and the rejection of the affidavit of candidacy, which will result in the omission of the candidate's name from any ballot in the election for which the candidate attempts to file the affidavit of candidacy and pay the filing fee. This information will be available to the filing officer ta whom the written request is delivered, to employees of that filing officer and to other elections officials with whom that filing officer consuits in order to obtain information necessary to make the determination whether the address of residence listed by the candidate is actually located in the area represented by the office sought.

Candidate and Address of Residence

Candidate Name

Office Sought
Street Address
City MN ZIP Code

Statement

Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes 2045.06, subd. 1b {c), | certify that a police report has been submitted, an order for protection has been issued, or | have a reasonable fear for my or my farnily's safety; or my address is otherwise private by Minnesota law.

Signature of candidate Date

Filing Officer Verification of Residence

For offices where a residency requirement must be satisfied by the close of the filing period (Governor,
Lieutenant Governor, State Senator, and State Representative}. Must be completed by the filing officer within one business day of receiving the filing.

ihave determined that the address provided by the candidate on this form is within the area represented by the office the candidate is seeking.

Signature of filing officer Date

Revised 7/2023