Minutes of Business Meeting
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Approved XXXX
A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held June 17, 2024, beginning at 7:02
p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."
Call to Order and Roll Call
Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.
Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Director Vento moved to remove Superintendent Contract from the Consent Agenda, and Director
Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken theron, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed.
MOTION: Director Vento moved to add Superintendent Contract as item 1. of the Work Session agenda, and Director
Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved to add Item 5.X. 598 - Early Entry to Kindergarten under Operations to the agenda for discussion, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Chair Bowman noted the following updates be made to the agenda:
● Operations Item 5.E. for action: Resolution for Membership in the Minnesota State High School League -
correction to the Cooper application: Director Bassett be listed as representative of the Board instead of Director
Evans-Becker
● Consent Agenda Item 6.C.5.b: Designation of Education Television Producer - in line for TO:, change
Superintendent Engstrom to Interim Superintendent Voight
MOTION: Director Vento moved to approve the amended agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Interim Superintendent's Report
Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent
Interim Superintendent Voight introduced Dr. Cheryl Ulik, Director of Research, Evaluation and Assessment, who provided a summary of the 2024 District Student Opinion Survey. The Board requested a more in depth report on this at an upcoming Work Session.
Student Achievement Update
Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent
Interim Superintendent Voight provided a summary of successes from the 2023-2024 school year, which was also provided in depth in a document attached to the agenda online.
Operations
A. Action: Resolution Relating to Renewal of an Expiring Referendum
The resolution was read, then was opened to public comment. Four community members spoke - two in support of renewal, and two not in support of renewal.
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval, and Chair Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Director Holmes abstained from voting.
Said motion was declared duly passed.
B. Action: Resolution Authorizing Renewal of an Existing Capital Project Levy and Calling a Special Election
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval and waived reading, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,

Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
C. Action: District 281 Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Plan
MOTION: Director Vento amended to clarify voting on resolution and sale of bonds together - then moved approval and waived reading, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Holmes. Director Brooks abstained from voting. Said motion was declared duly passed.
D. Action: District 287 LTFM Plan
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval and waived reading, and Director Vento seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
E. Action: Resolution for Membership in the Minnesota State High School League (MSHSL)
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval with change noted at start of meeting, Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
F. Action: Policies: 410 - Family and Medical Leave, G. 414 - Mandated Reporting of Child Neglect or Physical or
Sexual Abuse, H. 415 - Mandated Reporting of Maltreatment of Vulnerable Adults, I. 522.1 - Gender Identity, J.
524 - Internet Acceptable Use and Safety, K. 707 - Transportation of Public School Students*, and L. 708 -
Transportation of Nonpublic School Students*
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of Business Meeting agenda Items 5.F-L (policies listed above) as one vote, Chair Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof:
Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
*The Policy Committee will work on clarifying the verbiage between policies 707 and 708
M. Action: Resolution Establishing Filing Dates for Filing Affidavits of Candidacy
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval and waived reading, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
N. Action: Resolution Designating Brokers for Investment of District Funds
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval and waived reading, and Director Vento seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
O. Action: Resolution Designating Depositories for School District Funds for 2024-2025
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval and waived reading, and Director Vento seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
P. Action: Resolution Accepting May 2024 Donations
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval of $68,313.09 in donations, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Q. Non-Action: FY25 Preliminary Budget and Resolution - Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance
Ms. Verbrugge was available to answer any questions regarding the FY25 Preliminary Budget and Resolution, which is recommended to move to Action at the Special Business Meeting on Monday, June 24, 2024.
R. Non-Action: Resolution Authorizing Payment of Specific Statements in Advance for 2024-2025 - Virginia
Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance
Ms. Verbrugge was available to answer any questions regarding this resolution, which is recommended to move to Action at the Special Business Meeting on Monday, June 24, 2024.
S. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Update
The committee noted that they would be scheduling a meeting in July to bring Superintendent Staloch up to speed on the work they are doing, and plan for the coming year.
T. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee update.
The committee has not met, but requested 15 minutes in the upcoming Board retreat in July for discussion.
U. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Update
The task force has not met, however Chair Bowman noted that legal counsel recommended not working in the
Board Google drive to prevent violation of open meeting law. The committee is looking forward to the start of
Superintendent Staloch, to review the work done already and make recommendations.

V. Policy Committee Update
The committee met on June 12, and will continue to work through reviewing policies to bring to the Board for review and feedback before approving.
W. Human Resources Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources had provided a written update regarding highly qualified educational assistants (EAs), and was available for questions. She noted that three weeks ago there were 85 EA
positions open, and now there are only 28 still open and posted.
X. Regarding Policy 598 - Early Entrance to Kindergarten
Director Brooks had requested a conversation about this policy, due to omission of Statute 124D.02.
Chair Bowman recommended it be brought back to the Policy Committee for further discussion and review, before bringing them to the Board for review and further recommendations.
Consent Agenda
Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Director Brooks was out of the room when the vote was taken. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Board Reports
Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Vento facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Four individuals submitted requests (three spoke) in regard to: proposed changes to policy 522.1 - Gender Identity, referendum, responses received regarding their May 20, 2024 Listening
Time comments/questions, and the transparency about and process for requesting early entrance to kindergarten for their student.
Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)
Adjournment
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
9:29 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
Signed:___________________________________________ Date:____________________________
Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, ISD 281