Good Afternoon Marti and Bridget,
I hope you are both doing well! Earlier this year 3rd grade Aspire students completed a unit where they researched a cause they would like to change in their school, community, or world and then had the option to write a letter, deliver a speech, or create a flier to promote the cause they researched and would like to change. One of my students at Zachary Lane (Evie Mayer) was very passionate about wanting to change the school start time and researched the impacts of sleep on kids. She chose to write a letter to the
Superintendent for her final project which I wanted to share with you:
Dear Superintendent,
The change of the school start time has helped my older brother greatly. He is in eighth grade but when he was in six and seventh he was tired and grumpy and kind of mean. He needs more sleep which is why I'm glad that the school start time changed .Now he can do better in school because his mind and body will be rested and refreshed.
But now kids in Elementary schools are tired. Those kids include me. I personally think maybe we should get up at the same time, basically just later than we are now.They don't have to start at the same time but not that early. I'm in third grade and the state tests are coming up and us third graders need rest too, and the fourth and fifth graders etc.
Did you know children need more sleep than adults?
With more sleep, kids would do better in school and on tests.They would get more sleep so people would get better jobs in the future.Those jobs could make tech better, etc. Life could be more advanced and we could have more scientists. We would be more educated and smarter because people would have their mind rested.They could probably pay more attention in school. Please consider changing the school start time.
Sincerely,
Evelyn Mayer
Her letter also inspired a few of her classmates to write these letters in addition to their original projects on a different cause they wanted to change. I told them all that there were a lot of factors that go into big decisions like school start times and it would likely not be changing but I also told them I would share their work with you so their opinions and voices were heard.
Please reach out if you have any questions or feedback.
--
Allie Hood
Talent Development Specialist
FAIR-Pilgrim Lane, Meadow Lake, Neill, Noble, RSI, & Zachary Lane allison_hood@rdale.org
(612) 567-8882 Google voice number can be used for text or calls rdale.org