To: Members of the School Board
From: Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Ukee Dozier, Consultant - School Management Systems
Date: March 4, 2024
Re: Tentative Agreement - Robbinsdale Federation of Teachers Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
District Administration is recommending the approval of a two-year Robbinsdale Federation of
Teachers (RFT) contract with effective dates of July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2025. The following items have been negotiated and the contract has been ratified.
Salary Schedule Cafeteria Benefit Improvement/Insurance 403b/457
Improvement contribution Match
Year 1: +4% Year 1: +$125/mo. Year 1: +0%
Add Step 25 - Initially step 21 + 3%
Year 2: +5% Year 2: +$75/mo. Year 2: +$350/yr.
● Professional Growth and Support Stipend plus protected professional learning leave: Licensed
School Social Workers, Speech/Language Pathologists and Psychologists will each be provided with $500 each year for the purpose of developing and enhancing their social work skills and accessing training that will meet their credentialing requirements. Licensed School Social
Workers, Speech/Language Pathologists and Psychologists will be guaranteed three paid professional learning days a year to attend training/conferences that support their work with the students and families they serve. Licensed Social Workers will be reimbursed for the cost of their Minnesota Board of Social Work License renewal. SLPs and Psychologists would be reimbursed their particular license fee as well.
● When making schedules for lunch and prep times, the amount of student contact time should not exceed 3.25 hours of continuous student contact time without a break, to the extent possible.
● On early dismissal days staff will be released once their supervision of students has ended.
● Additional Activities will be reduced to 16 hours/year from the current 18 hours/year.
● Half (50%) of conference time may be utilized for professional development activity by individuals not needed for conference interactions with parents. At elementary, this includes specialists (music, phy ed, art, media, Spanish, STEAM band/orchestra). The specialist will be excused from one conference night at the school. Teachers who are part-time or split between buildings will attend the evening professional development and then will prorate their time at their buildings according to their FTE. Specialists will be required to submit their conference night schedule two weeks in advance of the first night of conferences.At secondary, this can be

either an all-staff professional development during the evening or may be used by individuals not needed for conferences for role-specific collaboration with others in the district, or other role-specific professional development.
● Classroom teachers shall not be required to engage in student contact more than an average of five hours and ten minutes (5 hours and 10 minutes) per day.
● All teaching vacancies, special assignments, or new teaching positions constituting eighty (80)
or more days of work per school year shall be posted electronically on the District's designated job posting website for a period of no less than three (3) school days, except for the last two weeks in August.
● Each teacher will be scheduled for an average of sixty (60) minutes per day planning time free from student contact. At the elementary level, an average of 30 minutes of preparation time shall be during the student day and an additional 30 minutes shall be designated before or after the student day.
● A draft copy of the seniority list will be published annually in January and a final copy in
February. One or more copies will be available in all schools each year. A draft copy of this list will be electronically sent.
● If a teacher is out on unpaid medical leave, their PTO will be pro-rated for the paid time worked at the rate of 1.2 days per month for paid time.
● Jury Duty and Election Judging
We are proposing the addition of a Therapeutic Specialist lane that would be commensurate with the current Specialist lane. This would become the starting point for SLPs, Occupational
Therapists, Physical Therapists, and School Social Workers. The addition of this lane would then replace the language in sections 12-5-3-14 and subsequent sections as they refer to a lower rate of pay. This would not impact those who may already be starting at a higher wage due to having additional credits, degrees, and/or years of service.
● Beginning in Year 2 of this agreement - Cafeteria teachers with a minimum of 25 (twenty-five)
years in the Robbinsdale Area Schools may, upon retirement, cash in their unused PTO days at their daily rate of pay into an HRA account.
○ Must have 50 days in unused PTO
○ May sell back 25 days at daily rate of pay.
Appendix B
● Add Elementary Art Show Coordinator stipend of $2,000
● Add stipend for Jazz I, Jazz II, Chamber Strings, and Concertino
Appx Appx #
Rehearsal Performanc Stipend
Ensemble Hrs/Year es/Yr Structure
Jazz I 50 5-6 $2,072
Jazz II 25 3-4 $1,073
Chamber
Strings 32 10-12 $1,628
Concertino 32 6-8 $1,480

● Orchestra Director stipend increased to $4,896.
● Tech Director stipend increased to $13,676 to be divided by the number of shows/year. This money can be used to also pay other support roles for the productions not listed in Appendix
B. Examples include Choreographer, Lighting Designer, Sound Designer, etc.
● Honors Choir Director stipend of $3,251
● Student Council stipend $1,684
● Musical Tech Director stipend $1,169
● District-wide Choir/Orchestra Directors stipend $4,000
● District-wide Choir/Orchestra Assistant Directors stipend $2,375
● Accompanist $12,000 for all shows/year/high school
● Add Speech Pathologist Student Teacher Supervisor stipend (231 hours or more) $357
Appendix C
Extended Day/Yearly Hourly Wage (/hr)
2023-2024 2024-2025
BA $40.00 $42.00
MA $42.00 $44.10
● Prorated compensation for ECFE teachers who host/mentor student teachers based on hours listed in Article V District Wide Activities.
● Concurrent Enrollment (College in the Schools) Teachers instructing concurrent enrollment
(dual credit, college in the classroom) courses are required by the Higher Learning
Commission, the accrediting body for post-secondary educational institutions, to have a master's degree in the subject matter they are teaching, or have a master's degree in another area and 18 credits in the subject matter they are teaching. The Higher Learning Commission granted a waiver, allowing teachers until 2025 to attain the required credits. Up to five teachers per year can complete work for credentials for concurrent enrollment courses and the cost of those courses or tests will be paid by the school district