Robbinsdale Area Schools
Independent School District 281
Original Adoption: June 18, 2012
Revised, Reviewed and Approved: August 17, 2020 November 2024
515.1 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE - PROTECTION AND PRIVACY OF STUDENT
RECORDS
I. PURPOSE
The school district recognizes its responsibility in regard to the collection, maintenance, and dissemination of student records and the protection of the privacy rights of students as provided in federal law and state statutes.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
The following procedures and policies regarding the protection and privacy of parents and students are adopted by the school district, pursuant to the requirements of 20 U.S.C. § 1232g, et seq., (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)) 34 C.F.R. Part 99 and consistent with the requirements of the Minnesota Government Data Practices Act, Minn. Stat. Ch. 13, and
Minn. Rules Parts 1205.0100- 1205.2000.
III. DEFINITIONS
A. Authorized Representative
"Authorized representative" means any entity or individual designated by the school district, state, or an agency headed by an official of the Comptroller of the United States, the Attorney General of the United States, the Secretary of the U.S. Department of
Education, or state and local educational authorities to conduct, with respect to federal or state supported education programs, any audit or evaluation or any compliance or enforcement activity in connection with federal legal requirements that relate to these programs.
B. Biometric Record
"Biometric record," as referred to in "Personally Identifiable," means a record of one or more measurable biological or behavioral characteristics that can be used for authorized recognition of an individual (e.g., fingerprints, retina and iris patterns, voice prints, DNA
sequence, facial characteristics, and handwriting).
DRAFT
C. Dates of Attendance
"Dates of attendance," as referred to in "Directory Information," means the period of time during which a student attends or attended a school or schools in the school district, including attendance in person or by paper correspondence, satellite, internet or other electronic communication technologies for students who are not in the classroom, and including the period during which a student is working under a work-study program.

The term does not include specific daily records of a student's attendance at a school or schools in the school district.
D. Directory Information
1. Under federal law, "directory information" - means information contained in an education record of a student which would not generally be considered harmful or an invasion of privacy if disclosed. It includes, but is not limited to: the student's name, address, telephone number, school, dates of attendance (enrollment), grade level, participation in officially recognized activities and sports, weight and height of members of athletic teams, degrees, honors and awards received; and the most recent educational agency or institution attended. It also includes the name, address, and telephone number of the student's parent(s). Directory information does not include:
a. a student's social security number; b. a student's identification number (ID), user ID, or other unique personal identifier used by a student for purposes of accessing or communicating in electronic systems if the identifier may be used to access education records without use of one or more factors that authenticate the student's identity such as a personal identification number (PIN), password, or other factor known or possessed only by the authorized user; c. a student ID or other unique personal identifier that is displayed on a student ID badge if the identifier can be used to gain access to educational records when used in conjunction with one or more factors that authenticate the student's identity, such as a PIN, password, or other factor known or possessed only by the student; d. personally identifiable data which references religion, race, color, social position, or nationality; or e. data collected from nonpublic school students, other than those who receive shared time educational services, unless written consent is given by the student's parent or guardian.
2. Under Minnesota law, a school district may not designate a student's home address, telephone number, email address, or other personal contact information as
"directory information."
DRAFT
Minnesota law prohibits schools from designating student contact information as "directory information" despite the FERPA definition. Minnesota schools should comply with Minnesota law and should not include student contact information in their definition of "directory information."
E. Education Records

1. What constitutes "education records." Education records means those records which: (1) are directly related to a student; and (2) are maintained by the school district or by a party acting for the school district.
2. What does not constitute an education record. The term, "education records," does not include: (1) kept in the sole possession of the maker of the record; (2) used only as a personal memory aid; (3) not accessible or revealed to any other individual except a temporary substitute teacher; and (4) destroyed at the end of the school year.
b. Records of a law enforcement unit of the school district, provided education records maintained by the school district are not disclosed to the unit, and the law enforcement records are: (1) maintained separately from education records; (2) maintained solely for law enforcement purposes; and
(3) disclosed only to law enforcement officials of the same jurisdiction.
c. Records relating to an individual, including a student, who is employed by the school district which: (1) are made and maintained in the normal course of business; (2) relate exclusively to the individual in that individual's capacity as an employee; and (3) are not available for use for any other purpose.
However, these provisions shall not apply to records relating to an individual in attendance at the school district who is employed as a result of his or her status as a student.
d. Records relating to an eligible student, or a student attending an institution of post-secondary education, which are: (1) made or maintained by a physician, psychiatrist, psychologist, or other recognized professional or paraprofessional acting in his or her professional or paraprofessional capacity or assisting in that capacity; (2) made, maintained, or used only in connection with the provision of treatment to the student; and (3) disclosed only to individuals providing the treatment; provided that the records can be personally reviewed by a physician or other appropriate professional of the student's choice. For the purpose of this definition, "treatment" does not include remedial educational activities or activities that are a part of the program of instruction within the school district.
e. Records created or received by the school district after an individual is no longer a student at the school district and that are not directly related to the individual's attendance as a student.
DRAFT
f. Grades on peer-related papers before the papers are collected and recorded by a teacher.
F. Education Support Services Data
"Education support services data" means data on individuals collected, created,

maintained, used, or disseminated relating to programs administered by a government entity or entity under contract with a government entity designed to eliminate disparities and advance equities in educational achievement for youth by coordinating services available to participants, regardless of the youth's involvement with other government services. Education support services data does not include welfare data under Minnesota
Statutes, section 13.46.
Unless otherwise provided by law, all education support services data are private data on individuals and must not be disclosed except according to Minnesota Statutes, section
13.05 or a court order.
G. Eligible Student
"Eligible student" means a student who has attained eighteen (18) years of age or is attending an institution of post-secondary education.
H. Juvenile Justice System
"Juvenile justice system" includes criminal justice agencies and the judiciary when involved in juvenile justice activities.
I. Legitimate Educational Interest
"Legitimate educational interest" includes interest directly related to classroom instruction, teaching, student achievement and progress, discipline of a student, student health and welfare, and the ability to respond to a request for education data. It includes a person's need to know in order to:
1. Perform an administrative task required in the school or employee's contract or position description approved by the school board;
2. Perform a supervisory or instructional task directly related to the student's education; or
3. Perform a service or benefit for the student or the student's family such as health care, counseling, student job placement, or student financial aid.
4. Perform a task directly related to responding to a request for data.
J. Parent
DRAFT
"Parent" means a parent of a student and includes a natural parent, a guardian, or an individual acting as a parent of the student in the absence of a parent or guardian.
The school district may presume the parent has the authority to exercise the rights provided herein, unless it has been provided with evidence that there is a state law or court order governing such matters as marriage dissolution, separation or child custody, or a legally binding instrument which provides to the contrary.

K. Personally Identifiable
"Personally identifiable" means that the data or information includes, but is not limited to:
(a) a student's name;
(b) the name of the student's parent or other family member;
(c) the address of the student or student's family;
(d) a personal identifier such as the student's social security number or student number or biometric record;
(e) other direct identifiers, such as the student's date of birth, place of birth, and mother's maiden name;
(f) other information that, alone or in combination, is linked or linkable to a specific student that would allow a reasonable person in the school community, who does not have personal knowledge of the relevant circumstances, to identify the student with reasonable certainty; or
(g) information requested by a person who the school district reasonably believes knows the identity of the student to whom the education record relates.
L. Record
"Record" means any information or data recorded in any way including, but not limited to, handwriting, print, computer media, video or audio tape, film, microfilm, and microfiche.
M. Responsible Authority
"Responsible authority" is the Assistant Superintendent.
N. Student
"Student" includes any individual who is or has been in attendance, enrolled, or registered at the school district and regarding whom the school district maintains education records.
Student also includes applicants for enrollment or registration at the school district and individuals who receive shared time educational services from the school district.
DRAFT
O. School Official
"School official" includes:
(a) a person duly elected to the school board;
(b) a person employed by the school board in an administrative, supervisory,

instructional, or other professional position;
(c) a person employed by the school board as a temporary substitute in a professional position for the period of his or her performance as a substitute; and (d) a person employed by, or under contract to, the school board to perform a special task such as a secretary, a clerk, a public information officer or data practices compliance official, an attorney, or an auditor for the period of his or her performance as an employee or contractor.
P. Summary Data
"Summary data" means statistical records and reports derived from data on individuals but in which individuals are not identified and from which neither their identities nor any other characteristic that could uniquely identify the individual is ascertainable.
Q. Other Terms and Phrases
All other terms and phrases shall be defined in accordance with applicable state and federal law or ordinary customary usage.
IV. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION
State law provides that all data collected, created, received, or maintained by a school district are public unless classified by state or federal law as not public or private or confidential. State law classifies all data on individuals maintained by a school district which relates to a student as private data on individuals. This data may not be disclosed to parties other than the parent or eligible student without consent, except pursuant to a valid court order, certain state statutes authorizing access, and the provisions of FERPA and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
V. STATEMENT OF RIGHTS
A. Rights of Parents and Eligible Students
Parents and eligible students have the following rights under this policy:
1. The right to inspect and review the student's education records;
2. The right to request the amendment of the student's education records to ensure that they are not inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in violation of the student's privacy or other rights;
DRAFT
3. The right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information contained in the student's education records, except to the extent that such consent is not required for disclosure pursuant to this policy, state or federal law, or the regulations promulgated thereunder;
4. The right to refuse release of names, addresses, and home telephone numbers of students in grades 11 and 12 to military recruiting officers and post-secondary

educational institutions;
5. The right to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures by the school district to comply with the federal law and the regulations promulgated thereunder;
6. The right to be informed about rights under the federal law; and
7. The right to obtain a copy of this policy at the location set forth in Section XXI. of this policy.
B. Eligible Students
All rights and protections given parents under this policy transfer to the student when he or she reaches eighteen (18) years of age or enrolls in an institution of post-secondary education. The student then becomes an "eligible student." However, the parents of an eligible student who is also a "dependent student" are entitled to gain access to the education records of such student without first obtaining the consent of the student.
In addition, parents of an eligible student may be given access to education records in connection with a health or safety emergency if the disclosure meets the conditions of any provision set forth in 34 C.F.R. § 99.31(a).
C. Disabled Students
The school district shall follow 34 Code of Federal Regulations, sections 300.610-300.617
with regard to the privacy, notice, access, recordkeeping, and accuracy of information related to students with a disability.
VI. DISCLOSURE OF EDUCATION RECORDS
A. Consent Required for Disclosure
1. The school district shall obtain a signed and dated written informed consent of the parent of a student or the eligible student before disclosing personally identifiable information from the education records of the student, except as provided herein.
2. The written consent required by this subdivision must be signed and dated by the parent of the student or the eligible student giving the consent and shall include:
a. a specification of the records to be disclosed;
DRAFT
b. the purpose or purposes of the disclosure; c. the party or class of parties to whom the disclosure may be made; d. the consequences of giving informed consent; and e. if appropriate, a termination date for the consent.

3. When a disclosure is made under this subdivision:
a. if the parent or eligible student so requests, the school district shall provide him or her with a copy of the records disclosed; and b. if the parent of a student who is not an eligible student so requests, the school district shall provide the student with a copy of the records disclosed.
4. A signed and dated written consent may include a record and signature in electronic form that:
a. identifies and authenticates a particular person as the source of the electronic consent; and b. indicates such person's approval of the information contained in the electronic consent.
5. If the responsible authority seeks an individual's informed consent to the release of private data to an insurer or the authorized representative of an insurer, informed consent shall not be deemed to have been given unless the statement is:
a. in plain language; b. dated; c. specific in designating the particular persons or agencies the data subject is authorization to disclose information about the data subject; d. specific as to the nature of the information the subject is authorizing to be disclosed; e. specific as to the persons or agencies to whom the subject is authorizing information to be disclosed; f. specific as to the purpose or purposes for which the information may be used by any of the parties named in Clause e. above, both at the time of the disclosure and at any time in the future; and g. specific as to its expiration date which should be within a reasonable time,
DRAFT
not to exceed one year except in the case of authorizations given in connection with applications for: (i) life insurance or non-cancellable or guaranteed renewable health insurance and identified as such, two years after the date of the policy, or (ii) medical assistance under Minn. Stat. Ch.
256B or Minnesota Care under Minn. Stat. Ch. 256L, which shall be ongoing during all terms of eligibility, for individualized education program health-related services provided by a school district that are

subject to third party reimbursement.
6. Eligible Student Consent
Whenever a student has attained eighteen (18) years of age or is attending an institution of post secondary education, the rights accorded to and the consent required of the parent of the student shall thereafter only be accorded to and required of the eligible student, except as provided in Section V. of this policy.
B. Prior Consent for Disclosure Not Required
The school district may disclose personally identifiable information from the education records of a student without the written consent of the parent of the student or the eligible student unless otherwise provided herein, if the disclosure is:
1. To other school officials, including teachers, within the school district whom the school district determines have a legitimate educational interest in such records;
2. To a contractor, consultant, volunteer, or other party to whom the school district has outsourced institutional services or functions provided that the outside party:
a. performs an institutional service or function for which the school district would otherwise use employees; b. is under the direct control of the school district with respect to the use and maintenance of education records; and c. will not disclose the information to any other party without the prior consent of the parent or eligible student and uses the information only for the purposes for which the disclosure was made.
3. To officials of other schools, school districts, or post-secondary educational institutions in which the student seeks or intends to enroll, or is already enrolled, as long as the disclosure is for purposes related to the student's enrollment or transfer.
The records shall include information about disciplinary action taken as a result of any incident in which the student possessed or used a dangerous weapon, and with proper annual notice (see Section XIX.), suspension and expulsion information and, if applicable, data regarding a student's history of violent behavior.
The records also shall include a copy of any probable cause notice or any disposition or court order under Minn. Stat. § 260B.171, unless the data are required to be destroyed under Minn. Stat. § 120A.22, Subd. 7(c) or § 121A.75.
DRAFT
On request, the school district will provide the parent or eligible student with a copy of the education records which have been transferred and provide an opportunity for a hearing to challenge the content of those records in accordance with Section XV. of this policy;
4. To authorized representatives of the Comptroller General of the United States, the
Attorney General of the United States, the Secretary of the U.S. Department of

Education, or the Commissioner of the State Department of Education or his or her representative, subject to the conditions relative to such disclosure provided under federal law;
5. In connection with financial aid for which a student has applied or has received, if the information is necessary for such purposes as to:
a. determine eligibility for the aid; b. determine the amount of the aid; c. determine conditions for the aid; or d. enforce the terms and conditions of the aid.
"Financial aid" for purposes of this provision means a payment of funds provided to an individual or a payment in kind of tangible or intangible property to the individual that is conditioned on the individual's attendance at an educational agency or institution;
6. To state and local officials or authorities to whom such information is specifically allowed to be reported or disclosed pursuant to state statute adopted:
a. before November 19, 1974, if the allowed reporting or disclosure concerns the juvenile justice system and such system's ability to effectively serve the student whose records are released; or b. after November 19, 1974, if the reporting or disclosure allowed by state statute concerns the juvenile justice system and the system's ability to effectively serve, prior to adjudication, the student whose records are released, provided the officials and authorities to whom the records are disclosed certify in writing to the school district that the data will not be disclosed to any other party, except as provided by state law, without the prior written consent of the parent of the student. At a minimum, the school district shall disclose the following information to the juvenile justice system under this paragraph: a student's full name, home address,
Telephone number, and date of birth; a student's school schedule, attendance record, and photographs, if any; and parents' names, home addresses, and telephone numbers.
7. To organizations conducting studies for or on behalf of educational
DRAFT
agencies or institutions for the purpose of developing, validating, or administering predictive tests, administering student aid programs, or improving instruction; provided that the studies are conducted in a manner which does not permit the personal identification of parents or students by individuals other than representatives of the organization, the information is destroyed when no longer needed for the purposes for which the study was conducted, and the school district enters into a written agreement with

the organization that:
(a) specifies the purpose, scope, and duration of the study or studies and the information to be disclosed;
(b) requires the organization to use personally identifiable information from education records only to meet the purpose or purposes of the study as stated in the written agreement;
(c) requires the organization to conduct the study in a manner that does not permit personal identification of parents and students by anyone other than representatives of the organization with legitimate interests; and
(d) requires the organization to destroy or return to the school district all personally identifiable information when information is no longer needed for the purposes for which the study was conducted and specifies the time period in which the information must be returned or destroyed. For purposes of this provision, the term,
"organizations," includes, but is not limited to, federal, state, and local agencies and independent organizations. In the event the
Department of Education determines that a third party outside of the school district to whom information is disclosed violates this provision, the school district may not allow that third party access to personally identifiable information from education records for at least five (5) years;
8. To accrediting organizations in order to carry out their accrediting functions;
9. To parents of a student eighteen (18) years of age or older if the student is a dependent of the parents for income tax purposes;
10. To comply with a judicial order or lawfully issued subpoena, provided, however, that the school district makes a reasonable effort to notify the parent or eligible student of the order or subpoena in advance of compliance therewith so that the parent or eligible student may seek protective action, unless the disclosure is in compliance with a federal grand jury subpoena, or any other subpoena issued for law enforcement purposes, and the court or other issuing agency has ordered that the existence or the contents of the subpoena or the information furnished in
DRAFT
response to the subpoena not be disclosed, or the disclosure is in compliance with an ex parte court order obtained by the United States
Attorney General (or designee not lower than an Assistant Attorney
General) concerning investigations or prosecutions of an offense listed in
18 U.S.C. § 2332b(g)(5)(B) or an act of domestic or international terrorism as defined in 18 United States Code , section 2331, or a parent is a party to a court proceding involving child abuse and neglect or dependency matters,

and the order is issued int he context of the proceeding. If the school district initiates legal action against a parent or student, it may disclose to the court, without a court order or subpoena, the education records of the student that are relevant for the school district to proceed with the legal action as plaintiff. Also, if a parent or eligible student initiates a legal action against the school district, the school district may disclose to the court, without a court order or subpoena, the student's education records that are relevant for the school district to defend itself;
11. To appropriate parties, including parents of an eligible student, in connection with an emergency if knowledge of the information is necessary to protect the health, including the mental health, or safety of the student or other individuals. The decision is to be based upon information available at the time the threat occurs that indicates that there is an articulable and significant threat to the health or safety of a student or other individuals. In making a determination whether to disclose information under this section, the school district may take into account the totality of the circumstances pertaining to a threat and may disclose information from education records to any person whose knowledge of the information is necessary to protect the health or safety of the student or other students.
A record of this disclosure must be maintained pursuant to Section XIII.E.
of this policy. In addition, an educational agency or institution may include in the education records of a student appropriate information concerning disciplinary action taken against the student for conduct that posed a significant risk to the safety or well-being of that student, other students, or other members of the school community. This information may be disclosed to teachers and school officials within the school district and/or teachers and school officials in other schools who have legitimate educational interests in the behavior of the student;
12. To the juvenile justice system if information about the behavior of a student who poses a risk of harm is reasonably necessary to protect the health or safety of the student or other individuals;
13. Information the school district has designated as "directory information"
pursuant to Section VII. of this policy;
14. To military recruiting officers and post-secondary educational institutions pursuant to Section XI. of this policy;
15. To the parent of a student who is not an eligible student or to the student
DRAFT
himself or herself;
16. To appropriate health authorities to the extent necessary to administer immunization programs and for bona fide epidemiologic investigations which the commissioner of health determines are necessary to prevent disease or disability to individuals in the public educational agency or institution in which the investigation is being conducted;

17. To volunteers who are determined to have a legitimate educational interest in the data and who are conducting activities and events sponsored by or endorsed by the educational agency or institution for students or former students;
18. To the juvenile justice system, on written request that certifies that the information will not be disclosed to any other person except as authorized by law without the written consent of the parent of the student:
a. the following information about a student must be disclosed: a student's full name, home address, telephone number, date of birth; a student's school schedule, daily attendance record, and photographs, if any; and any parents' names, home addresses, and telephone numbers; b. the existence of the following information about a student, not the actual data or other information contained in the student's education record, may be disclosed provided that a request for access must be submitted on the statutory form and it must contain an explanation of why access to the information is necessary to serve the student:
(1) use of a controlled substance, alcohol, or tobacco; (2) assaultive or threatening conduct that could result in dismissal from school under the Pupil Fair Dismissal Act; (3) possession or use of weapons or look-alike weapons; (4) theft; or (5) vandalism or other damage to property. Prior to releasing this information, the principal, in collaboration with the Superintendent Designee or chief administrative officer of a school who receives such a request must, to the extent permitted by federal law, notify the student's parent or guardian by certified mail of the request to disclose information. If the student's parent or guardian notifies the school official of an objection to the disclosure within ten (10) days of receiving certified notice, the school official must not disclose the information and instead must inform the requesting member of the juvenile justice system of the objection. If no objection from the parent or guardian is received within fourteen (14) days, the school official must respond to the request for information. The written requests of the juvenile justice system member(s), as well as a record of any release, must be maintained in the student's file;
19. To the principal where the student attends and to any counselor directly supervising or reporting on the behavior or progress of the student if it is
DRAFT
information from a disposition order received by a superintendent under
Minn. Stat. § 260B.171, Subd. 3. The principal must notify the counselor immediately and must place the disposition order in the student's permanent education record. The principal also must notify immediately any teacher or administrator who directly supervises or reports on the behavior or progress of the student whom the principal believes needs the information to work with the student in an appropriate manner, to avoid

being needlessly vulnerable, or to protect other persons from needless vulnerability. The principal may also notify other school district employees, substitutes, and volunteers who are in direct contact with the student if the principal determines that these individuals need the information to work with the student in an appropriate manner, to avoid being needlessly vulnerable, or to protect other persons from needless vulnerability.
Such notices from the principal must identify the student, outline the offense, and describe any conditions of probation about which the school must provide information if this information is provided in the disposition order. Disposition order information received is private educational data received for the limited purpose of serving the educational needs of the student and protecting students and staff. The information may not be further disseminated by the counselor, teacher, administrator, staff member, substitute, or volunteer except as necessary to serve the student, to protect students and staff, or as otherwise required by law, and only to the student or the student's parent or guardian;
20. To the principal where the student attends if it is information from a peace officer's record of children received by a superintendent under Minn. Stat.
§ 260B.171, Subd. 5. The principal must place the information in the student's education record. The principal also must notify immediately any teacher, counselor, or administrator directly supervising the student whom the principal believes needs the information to work with the student in an appropriate manner, to avoid being needlessly vulnerable, or to protect other persons from needless vulnerability. The principal may also notify other district employees, substitutes, and volunteers who are in direct contact with the student if the principal determines that these individuals need the information to work with the student in an appropriate manner, to avoid being needlessly vulnerable, or to protect other persons from needless vulnerability. Such notices from the principal must identify the student and describe the alleged offense if this information is provided in the peace officer's notice. Peace officer's record information received is private educational data received for the limited purpose of serving the educational needs of the student and protecting students and staff.
The information must not be further disseminated by the counselor, teacher administrator, staff member, substitute, or volunteer except to communicate with the student or the student's parent or guardian as necessary to serve the student, to protect students and staff, or as otherwise required by law.
The principal must delete the peace officer's record from the student's
DRAFT
education record, destroy the data, and make reasonable efforts to notify any teacher, counselor, staff member, administrator, substitute, or volunteer who received information from the peace officer's record if the county attorney determines not to proceed with a petition or directs the student into a diversion or mediation program or if a juvenile court makes a decision on a petition and the county attorney or juvenile court notifies the superintendent of such action; or

21. To the Secretary of Agriculture, or authorized representative from the Food and Nutrition Service or contractors acting on behalf of the Food and
Nutrition Service, for the purposes of conducting program monitoring, evaluations, and performance measurements of state and local educational and other agencies and institutions receiving funding or providing benefits of one or more programs authorized under the National School Lunch Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 for which the results will be reported in an aggregate form that does not identify any individual, on the conditions that:
(a) any data collected shall be protected in a manner that will not permit the personal identification of students and their parents by other than the authorized representatives of the Secretary; and
(b) any personally identifiable data shall be destroyed when the data are no longer needed for program monitoring, evaluations, and performance measurements.
22. To an agency caseworker or other representative of a State or local child welfare agency, or tribal organization (as defined in 25 25 U.S.C. § 5304), who has the right to access a student's case plan, as defined and determined by the State or tribal organization, when such agency or organization is legally responsible, in accordance with State or tribal law, for the care and protection of the student, provided that the education records, or personally identifiable information contained in such records, of the student will not be disclosed by such agency or organization, except to an individual or entity engaged in addressing the student's education needs and authorized by such agency or organization (to receive such disclosure and such disclosure is consistent with the State or tribal laws applicable to protecting the confidentiality of a student's education records.)
23. When requested, educational agencies or institutions may share personal student contact information and directory information for students served in special education with postsecondary transition planning and services under Minnesota Statutes, section 125A.08, paragraph (b), clause (1), whether public or private, with the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development, as required for coordination of services to students with disabilities under Minnesota Statutes, sections 125A.08, paragraph (b), clause (1); 125A.023; and 125A.027.
C. Nonpublic School Students
DRAFT
The school district may disclose personally identifiable information from the education records of a nonpublic school student, other than a student who receives shared time educational services, without the written consent of the parent of the student or the eligible student unless otherwise provided herein, if the disclosure is:

1. Pursuant to a valid court order;
2. Pursuant to a statute specifically authorizing access to the private data; or
3. To appropriate health authorities to the extent necessary to administer immunization programs and for bona fide epidemiological investigations which the commissioner of health determines are necessary to prevent disease or disability to individuals in the public educational agency or institution in which the investigation is being conducted.
VII. RELEASE OF DIRECTORY INFORMATION
A. Educational Data
1. Educational data designated as directory information is public data on individuals to the extent required under federal law. Directory information must be designated pursuant to the provisions of:
a. Minnesota Statutes, section 13.32, subdivision 5; and b. 20 United States Code, section 1232g, and 34 Code of Federal Regulations, section 99.37, which were in effect on January 3, 2012.
2. The school district may not designate a student's home address, telephone number, email address, or other personal contact information as directory information under this section.
3. When requested, the school district must share personal contact information and directory information, whether public or private, with the Minnesota Department of Education, as required for federal reporting purposes.
[NOTE: This section became effective on the day following final enactment
(May 19, 2023). Beginning on the effective date, a student's personal contact information subject to this section must be treated as private educational data under Minnesota Statutes, section 13.32, regardless of whether that contact information was previously designated as directory information under
Minnesota Statutes, section 13.32, subdivision 5].
B. Former Students
Unless a former student validly opted out of the release of directory information while the
DRAFT
student was in attendance and has not rescinded the opt out request at any time, the school district may disclose directory information from the education records generated by it regarding the former student without meeting the requirements of Paragraph C. of this section. In addition, under an explicit exclusion from the definition of an "education record," the school district may release records that only contain information about an individual obtained after he or she is no longer a student at the school district and that are not directly related to the individual's attendance as a student (e.g., a student's activities as

an alumnus of the school district).
C. Present Students and Parents
The school district may disclose directory information from the education records of a student and information regarding parents without prior written consent of the parent of the student or eligible student, except as provided herein. Prior to such disclosure the school district shall:
1. When conducting the directory information designation and notice process required by federal law, the school district shall give parents and students notice of the right to refuse to let the district designate specified data about the student as directory information.
2. The school district shall give annual notice by any means that are reasonably likely to inform the parents and eligible students of:
a. the types of personally identifiable information regarding students and/or parents that the school district has designated as directory information; b. the parent's or eligible student's right to refuse to let the school district designate any or all of those types of information about the student and/or the parent as directory information; and c. the period of time in which a parent or eligible student has to notify the school district in writing that he or she does not want any or all of those types of information about the student and/or the parent designated as directory information.
3. Allow a reasonable period of time after such notice has been given for a parent or eligible student to inform the school district in writing that any or all of the information so designated should not be disclosed without the parent's or eligible student's prior written consent, except as provided in Section VI. of this policy.
4. A parent or eligible student may not opt out of the directory information disclosures to:
a. prevent the school district from disclosing or requiring the student to disclose the student's name, identifier, or school district e-mail address in a class in which the student is enrolled; or
DRAFT
b. prevent the school district from requiring a student to wear, to display publicly, or to disclose a student ID card or badge that exhibits information that may be designated as directory information and that has been properly designated by the school district as directory
5. The school district shall not disclose or confirm directory information without meeting the written consent requirements contained in Section VI.A. of this policy

if a student's social security number or other non-directory information is used alone or in combination with other data elements to identify or help identify the student or the student's records.
D. Procedure for Obtaining Non Disclosure of Directory Information
The parent's or eligible student's written notice shall be directed to the school principal or the district student records department and shall include the following:
1. Name of the student and/or parent, as appropriate;
2. Home address;
3. School presently attended by student;
4. Parent's legal relationship to student, if applicable; and
5. Specific categories of directory information to be made not public without the parent's or eligible student's prior written consent, which shall only be applicable for that school year.
E. Duration
The designation of any information as directory information about a student or parents will remain in effect for the remainder of the school year unless the parent or eligible student provides the written notifications provided herein.
VIII. DISCLOSURE OF PRIVATE RECORDS
A. Private Records
For the purposes herein, education records are records which are classified as private data on individuals by state law and which are accessible only to the student who is the subject of the data and the student's parent if the student is not an eligible student. The school district may not disclose private records or their contents except as summary data, or except as provided in Section VI. of this policy, without the prior written consent of the parent or the eligible student. The school district will use reasonable methods to identify and authenticate the identity of parents, students, school officials, and any other party to w whom personally identifiable information from education records is disclosed.
B. Private Records Not Accessible to Parent
DRAFT
In certain cases state law intends, and clearly provides, that certain information contained in the education records of the school district pertaining to a student be accessible to the student alone, and to the parent only under special circumstances, if at all.
1. The responsible authority may deny access to private data by a parent when a minor student who is the subject of that data requests that the responsible authority

deny such access. The minor student's request must be submitted in writing setting forth the reasons for denying access to the parent and must be signed by the minor.
Upon receipt of such request the responsible authority shall determine if honoring the request to deny the parent access would be in the best interest of the minor data subject. In making this determination the responsible authority shall consider the following factors:
a. whether the minor is of sufficient age and maturity to be able to explain the reasons for and understand the consequences of the request to deny access; b. whether the personal situation of the minor is such that denying parental access may protect the minor data subject from physical or emotional harm; c. whether there are grounds for believing that the minor data subject's reasons for precluding parental access are reasonably accurate; d. whether the data in question is of such a nature that disclosure of it to the parent may lead to physical or emotional harm to the minor data subject; and e. whether the data concerns medical, dental or other health services provided pursuant to Minn. Stat. §§ 144.341-144.347, in which case the data may be released only if the failure to inform the parent would seriously jeopardize the health of the minor.
C. Private Records Not Accessible to Student
Students shall not be entitled to access to private data concerning financial records and statements of the student's parent or any information contained therein.
IX. DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL RECORDS
A. Confidential Records
Confidential records are those records and data contained therein which are made not public by state or federal law, and which are inaccessible to the student and the student's parents or to an eligible student.
B. Reports Under the Maltreatment of Minors Reporting Act
DRAFT
Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 626.556, reports pertaining to a neglected and/or physically and/or sexually abused child shall be accessible only to the appropriate welfare and law enforcement agencies. In respect to other parties, such data shall be confidential and will not be made available to the parent or the subject individual by the school district.
The subject individual, however, may obtain a copy of the report from either the local welfare agency, county sheriff, or the local police department subject to the provisions of
Minn. Stat. § 626.556, Subd. 11.

C. Investigative Data
Data collected by the school district as part of an active investigation undertaken for the purpose of the commencement or defense of pending civil legal action, or which are retained in anticipation of a pending civil legal action are classified as protected nonpublic data in the case of data not on individuals, and confidential data in the case of data on individuals.
1. The school district may make any data classified as protected non-public or confidential pursuant to this subdivision accessible to any person, agency, or the public if the school district determines that such access will aid the law enforcement process, promote public health or safety, or dispel widespread rumor or unrest.
2. A complainant has access to a statement he or she provided to the school district.
3. Parents or eligible students may have access to investigative data of which the student is the subject, but only to the extent the data is not inextricably intertwined with data about other school district students, school district employees, and/or attorney data as defined in Minn. Stat. § 13.393.
4. Once a civil investigation becomes inactive, civil investigative data becomes public unless the release of the data would jeopardize another pending civil legal action, except for those portions of such data that are classified as not public data under state or federal law. Any civil investigative data presented as evidence in court or made part of a court record shall be public. For purposes of this provision, a civil investigation becomes inactive upon the occurrence of any of the following events:
a. a decision by the school district, or by the chief attorney for the school district, not to pursue the civil legal action. However, such investigation may subsequently become active if the school district or its attorney decides to renew the civil legal action; b. the expiration of the time to file a complaint under the statute of limitations or agreement applicable to the civil legal action; or c. the exhaustion or expiration of rights of appeal by either party to the civil legal action.
5. A "pending civil legal action" for purposes of this subdivision is defined as
DRAFT
including, but not limited to, judicial, administrative, or arbitration proceedings.
D. Chemical Abuse Records
To the extent the school district maintains records of the identity, diagnosis, prognosis, or treatment of any student which are maintained in connection with the performance of any drug abuse prevention function conducted, regulated, or directly or indirectly assisted by

any department or agency of the United States, such records are classified as confidential and shall be disclosed only for the purposes and under the circumstances expressly authorized by law.
X. DISCLOSURE OF SCHOOL RECORDS PRIOR TO EXCLUSION OR EXPULSION
HEARING
At a reasonable time prior to any exclusion or expulsion hearing, the student and the student's parent or guardian or representative shall be given access to all school district records pertaining to the student, including any tests or reports upon which the action proposed by the school district may be based, pursuant to the Minnesota Pupil Fair Dismissal Act, Minn. Stat. § 121A.40, et seq.
XI. DISCLOSURE OF DATA TO MILITARY RECRUITING OFFICERS AND POST-
SECONDARY EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
A. The school district will release the names, addresses, and home telephone numbers of students in grades 11 and 12 to military recruiting officers and post-secondary educational institutions within sixty (60) days after the date of the request unless a parent or eligible student has refused in writing to release this data pursuant to Paragraph C. below.
B. Data released to military recruiting officers under this provision:
1. may be used only for the purpose of providing information to students about military service, state and federal veterans' education benefits, and other career and educational opportunities provided by the military; and
2. cannot be further disseminated to any other person except personnel of the recruiting services of the armed forces.
C. A parent or eligible student has the right to refuse the release of the name, address, or home telephone number to military recruiting officers and post-secondary educational institutions. To refuse the release of the above information to military recruiting officers and post-secondary educational institutions, a parent or eligible student must notify the school office or the district student records department in writing by September 30 each year. The written request must include the following information:
1. Name of student and parent, as appropriate;
2. Home address;
3. Student's grade level;
DRAFT
4. School presently attended by student;
5. Parent's legal relationship to student, if applicable;
6. Specific category or categories of information which are not to be released to military recruiting officers and post-secondary educational institutions; and

7. Specific category or categories of information which are not to be released to the public, including military recruiting officers and post-secondary educational institutions.
D. Annually, the school district will provide public notice by any means that are reasonably likely to inform the parents and eligible students of their rights to refuse to release the names, addresses, and home phone numbers of students in grades 11 and 12 without prior consent.
E. A parent or eligible student's refusal to release the above information to military recruiting officers and post-secondary educational institutions does not affect the school district's release of directory information to the rest of the public, which includes military recruiting officers and post-secondary educational institutions. In order to make any directory information about a student private, the procedures contained in Section VII. of this policy also must be followed. Accordingly, to the extent the school district has designated the name, address, phone number, and grade level of students as directory information, absent a request from a parent or eligible student not to release such data, this information will be public data and accessible to members of the public, including military recruiting officers and post-secondary educational institutions.
XII. LIMITS ON REDISCLOSURE
A. Redisclosure
Consistent with the requirements herein, the school district may only disclose personally identifiable information from the education records of a student on the condition that the party to whom the information is to be disclosed will not disclose the information to any other party without the prior written consent of the parent of the student or the eligible student, except that the officers, employees, and agents of any party receiving personally identifiable information under this section may use the information, but only for the purposes for which the disclosure was made.
B. Redisclosure Not Prohibited
1. Subdivision A. of this section does not prevent the school district from disclosing personally identifiable information under Section VI. of this policy with the understanding that the party receiving the information may make further disclosures of the information on behalf of the school district provided:
a. The disclosures meet the requirements of Section VI. of this policy; and
DRAFT
b. The school district has complied with the record-keeping requirements of
Section XIII. of this policy.
2. Subdivision A. of this section does not apply to disclosures made pursuant to court orders or lawfully issued subpoenas or litigation, to disclosures of directory information, to disclosures to a parent or student or to parents of dependent students, or to disclosures concerning sex offenders and other individuals required

to register under 42 U.S.C. § 14071. However, the school district must provide the notification required in Section XII.D. of this policy if a redisclosure is made based upon a court order or lawfully issued subpoena.
[NOTE: 42 United States Code, section 14071 was repealed. School districts should retain this statutory reference, however, as it remains a reference in
FERPA and the Minnesota Government Data Practices Act and still may apply to individuals required to register prior to the repeal of this law.]
C. Classification of Disclosed Data
The information disclosed shall retain the same classification in the hands of the party receiving it as it had in the hands of the school district.
D. Notification
The school district shall inform the party to whom a disclosure is made of the requirements set forth in this section, except for disclosures made pursuant to court orders or lawfully issued subpoenas, disclosure of directory information under Section VII. of this policy, disclosures to a parent or student, or disclosures to parents of a dependent student. In the event that the Family Policy Compliance Office determines that a third party outside of the school district improperly rediscloses personally identifiable information from education records or fails to provide notification required under this section of this policy, the school district may not allow that third party access to personally identifiable information from education records for at least five (5) years.
XIII. RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY; RECORD SECURITY; AND RECORD KEEPING
A. Responsible Authority
The responsible authority shall be responsible for the maintenance and security of student records.
B. Record Security
The principal of each school subject to the supervision and control of the responsible authority shall be the records manager of the school, and shall have the duty of maintaining and securing the privacy and/or confidentiality of student records.
C. Plan for Securing Student Records
DRAFT
The building principal shall submit to the responsible authority a written plan for securing students records by September 1 of each school year. The written plan shall contain the following information:
1. A description of records maintained;
2. Titles and addresses of person(s) responsible for the security of student records;

3. Location of student records, by category, in the buildings;
4. Means of securing student records; and
5. Procedures for access and disclosure.
D. Review of Written Plan for Securing Student Records
The responsible authority shall review the plans submitted pursuant to Paragraph C. of this section for compliance with the law, this policy and the various administrative policies of the school district. The responsible authority shall then promulgate a chart incorporating the provisions of Paragraph C. which shall be attached to and become a part of this policy.
E. Record Keeping
1. The principal shall, for each request for and each disclosure of personally identifiable information from the education records of a student, maintain a record with the education records of the student which indicates:
a. the parties who have requested or received personally identifiable information from the education records of the student; b. the legitimate interests these parties had in requesting or obtaining the information; and c. the names of the state and local educational authorities and federal officials and agencies listed in Section VI.B.4. of this policy that may make further disclosures of personally identifiable information from the student's education records without consent.
2. In the event the school district discloses personally identifiable information from an education record of a student pursuant to Section XII.B. of this policy, the record of disclosure required under this section shall also include:
a. the names of the additional parties to which the receiving party may disclose the information on behalf of the school district; b. the legitimate interests under Section VI. of this policy which each of the additional parties has in requesting or obtaining the information; and c. a copy of the record of further disclosures maintained by a state or local
DRAFT
educational authority or federal official or agency listed in Section VI.B.4. of this policy in accordance with 34 C.F.R. § 99.32 and to whom the school district disclosed information from an education record. The school district shall request a copy of the record of further disclosures from a state or local educational authority or federal official or agency to whom education records were disclosed upon a request from a parent or eligible student to review the record of requests for disclosure.

3. Section XIII.E.1. does not apply to requests by or disclosure to a parent of a student or an eligible student, disclosures pursuant to the written consent of a parent of a student or an eligible student, requests by or disclosures to other school officials under Section VI.B.1.
of this policy, to requests for disclosures of directory information under Section VII. of this policy, or to a party seeking or receiving the records as directed by a federal grand jury or other law enforcement subpoena and the issuing court or agency has ordered that the existence or the contents of the subpoena or the information provided in response to the subpoena not be disclosed or as directed by an ex parte court order obtained by the
United States Attorney General (or designee not lower than an Assistant Attorney
General) concerning investigations or prosecutions of an offense listed in 18. U.S.C. §
2332b(g)(5)(B) or an act of domestic or international terrorism.
4. The record of requests of disclosures may be inspected by:
a. the parent of the student or the eligible student; b. the school official or his or her assistants who are responsible for the custody of the records; and c. the parties authorized by law to audit the record-keeping procedures of the school district.
5. The school district shall record the following information when it discloses personally identifiable information from education records under the health or safety emergency exception:
a. the articulable and significant threat to the health or safety of a student or other individual that formed the basis for the disclosure; and b. the parties to whom the school district disclosed the information.
6. The record of requests and disclosures shall be maintained with the education records of the student as long as the school district maintains the student's education records.
XIV. RIGHT TO INSPECT AND REVIEW EDUCATION RECORDS
A. Parent of a Student, an Eligible Student or the Parent of an Eligible Student Who is Also a
Dependent Student
The school district shall permit the parent of a student, an eligible student, or the parent of an eligible student who is also a dependent student who is or has been in attendance in the
DRAFT
school district to inspect or review the education records of the student, except those records which are made confidential by state or federal law or as otherwise provided in
Section VIII. of this policy.
B. Response to Request for Access
The school district shall respond to any request pursuant to Subdivision A. of this section

immediately, if possible, or within ten (10) days of the date of the request, excluding
Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
C. Right to Inspect and Review
The right to inspect and review education records under Subdivision A. of this section includes:
1. The right to a response from the school district to reasonable requests for explanations and interpretations of records; and
2. If circumstances effectively prevent the parent or eligible student from exercising the right to inspect and review the education records, the school district shall provide the parent or eligible student with a copy of the records requested or make other arrangements for the parent or eligible student to inspect and review the requested records.
3. Nothing in this policy shall be construed as limiting the frequency of inspection of the education records of a student with a disability by the student's parent or guardian or by the student upon the student reaching the age of majority.
D. Form of Request
Parents or eligible students shall submit to the school district a written request to inspect education records which identify as precisely as possible the record or records he or she wishes to inspect.
E. Collection of Student Records
If a student's education records are maintained in more than one location, the responsible authority may collect copies of the records or the records themselves from the various locations so they may be inspected at one site. However, if the parent or eligible student wishes to inspect these records where they are maintained, the school district shall attempt to accommodate those wishes. The parent or eligible student shall be notified of the time and place where the records may be inspected.
F. Records Containing Information on More Than One Student
If the education records of a student contain information on more than one student, the parent or eligible student may inspect and review or be informed of only the specific information which pertains to that student.
DRAFT
G. Authority to Inspect or Review
The school district may presume that either parent of the student has authority to inspect or review the education records of a student unless the school district has been provided with evidence that there is a legally binding instrument or a state law or court order governing such matters as marriage dissolution, separation, or custody which provides to

the contrary.
H. Fees for Copies of Records
1. The school district shall charge a reasonable fee for providing photocopies or printed copies of records unless printing a copy is the only method to provide for the inspection of data. In determining the amount of the reasonable fee, the school district shall consider the following:
a. the cost of materials, including paper, used to provide the copies; b. the cost of the labor required to prepare the copies; c. any schedule of standard copying charges established by the school district in its normal course of operations; d. any special costs necessary to produce such copies from machine based record-keeping systems, including but not limited to computers and microfilm systems; and e. mailing costs.
2. If 100 or fewer pages of black and white, letter or legal size paper copies are requested, actual costs shall not be used, and, instead, the charge shall be no more than 25 cents for each page copied.
3. The cost of providing copies shall be borne by the parent or eligible student.
4. The responsible authority, however, may not impose a fee for a copy of an education record made for a parent or eligible student if doing so would effectively prevent or, in the case of a student with a disability, impair the parent or eligible student from exercising their right to inspect or review the student's education records.
XV. REQUEST TO AMEND RECORDS; PROCEDURES TO CHALLENGE DATA
A. Request to Amend Education Records
The parent of a student or an eligible student who believes that information contained in the education records of the student is inaccurate, misleading, or violates the privacy or other rights of the student may request that the school district amend those records.
DRAFT
1. The request shall be in writing, shall identify the item the requestor believes to be inaccurate, misleading, or in violation of the privacy or other rights of the student, shall state the reason for this belief, and shall specify the correction the requestor wishes the school district to make. The request shall be signed and dated by the requestor.

2. The school district shall decide whether to amend the education records of the student in accordance with the request within thirty (30) days after receiving the request.
3. If the school district decides to refuse to amend the education records of the student in accordance with the request, it shall inform the parent of the student or the eligible student of the refusal and advise the parent or eligible student of the right to a hearing under Subdivision B. of this section.
B. Right to a Hearing
If the school district refuses to amend the education records of a student, the school district, on request, shall provide an opportunity for a hearing in order to challenge the content of the student's education records to ensure that information in the education records of the student is not inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in violation of the privacy or other rights of the student. A hearing shall be conducted in accordance with
Subdivision C. of this section.
1. If, as a result of the hearing, the school district decides that the information is inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in violation of the privacy or other rights of the student, it shall amend the education records of the student accordingly and so inform the parent of the student or the eligible student in writing.
2. If, as a result of the hearing, the school district decides that the information is not inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in violation of the privacy or other rights of the student, it shall inform the parent or eligible student of the right to place a statement in the record commenting on the contested information in the record or stating why he or she disagrees with the decision of the school district, or both.
3. Any statement placed in the education records of the student under Subdivision B.
of this section shall:
a. be maintained by the school district as part of the education records of the student so long as the record or contested portion thereof is maintained by the school district; and b. if the education records of the student or the contested portion thereof is disclosed by the school district to any party, the explanation shall also be disclosed to that party.
C. Conduct of Hearing
DRAFT
1. The hearing shall be held within a reasonable period of time after the school district has received the request, and the parent of the student or the eligible student shall be given notice of the date, place, and time reasonably in advance of the hearing.
2. The hearing may be conducted by any individual, including an official of the

school district who does not have a direct interest in the outcome of the hearing.
The school board attorney shall be in attendance to present the school board's position and advise the designated hearing officer on legal and evidentiary matters.
3. The parent of the student or eligible student shall be afforded a full and fair opportunity for hearing to present evidence relative to the issues raised under
Subdivisions A. and B. of this section and may be assisted or represented by individuals of his or her choice at his or her own expense, including an attorney.
4. The school district shall make a decision in writing within a reasonable period of time after the conclusion of the hearing. The decision shall be based solely on evidence presented at the hearing and shall include a summary of evidence and reasons for the decision.
D. Appeal
The final decision of the designated hearing officer may be appealed in accordance with the applicable provisions of Minn. Stat. Ch. 14 relating to contested cases.
XVI. PROBLEMS ACCESSING DATA
A. The data practices compliance official is the designated employee to whom persons may direct questions or concerns regarding problems in obtaining access to data or other data practices problems.
B. Data practices compliance official means Executive Director of the Human Resources office.
C. Any request by an individual with a disability for reasonable modifications of the school district's policies or procedures for purposes of accessing records shall be made to the data practices compliance official.
XVII. COMPLAINTS FOR NON COMPLIANCE WITH FERPA
A. Where to File Complaints
Complaints regarding alleged violations of rights accorded parents and eligible students by FERPA, and the rules promulgated thereunder, shall be submitted in writing to the
Family Policy Compliance Office, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue
S.W., Washington, D.C. 20202.
DRAFT
B. Content of Complaint
A complaint filed pursuant to this section must contain specific allegations of fact giving reasonable cause to believe that a violation of FERPA and the rules promulgated thereunder has occurred.
XVIII. WAIVER

A parent or eligible student may waive any of his or her rights provided herein pursuant to
FERPA. A waiver shall not be valid unless in writing and signed by the parent or eligible student.
The school district may not require such a waiver.
XIX. ANNUAL NOTIFICATION OF RIGHTS
A. Contents of Notice
The school district shall give parents of students currently in attendance and eligible students currently in attendance annual notice by such means as are reasonably likely to inform the parents and eligible students of the following:
1. That the parent or eligible student has a right to inspect and review the student's education records and the procedure for inspecting and reviewing education records;
2. That the parent or eligible student has a right to seek amendment of the student's education records to ensure that those records are not inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in violation of the student's privacy or other rights and the procedure for requesting amendment of records;
3. That the parent or eligible student has a right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information contained in the student's education records, except to the extent that federal and state law and the regulations promulgated thereunder authorize disclosure without consent;
4. That the parent or eligible student has a right to file a complaint with the U.S.
Department of Education regarding an alleged failure by the school district to comply with the requirements of FERPA and the rules promulgated thereunder.
5. The criteria for determining who constitutes a school official and what constitutes a legitimate educational interest for purposes of disclosing education records to other school officials whom the school district has determined to have legitimate educational interests; and
6. That the school district forwards education records on request to a school in which a student seeks or intends to enroll or is already enrolled as long as the disclosure is for purposes related to the student's enrollment or transfer and that such records may include suspension and expulsion records pursuant to section 20 U.S.C. §
7917, part of the federal Every Student Succeeds Act.
DRAFT
B. Notification to Parents of Students Having a Primary Home Language Other Than English
The school district shall provide for the need to effectively notify parents of students identified as having a primary or home language other than English.
C. Notification to Parents or Eligible Students Who are Disabled

The school district shall provide for the need to effectively notify parents or eligible students identified as disabled.
XX. DESTRUCTION AND RETENTION OF RECORDS
Destruction and retention of records by the school district shall be controlled by state and federal law.
XXI. COPIES OF POLICY
Copies of this policy may be obtained by parents and eligible students at the district education service center.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. Ch. 13 (Minnesota Government Data Practices Act)
Minn. Stat. Ch. 14 (Administrative Procedures Act)
Minn. Stat. § 120A.22 (Compulsory Instruction)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.40-121A.56 (The Pupil Fair Dismissal Act)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.75 (Sharing Disposition Order and Peace Officer Records)
Minn. Stat. § 127A.852 (Military-Connected Youth Identifier)
Minn. Stat. § 144.341-144.347 (Consent of Minors for Health Services)
Minn. Stat. § 260B.171, Subds. 3 and 5 (Disposition Order and Peace Officer
Records of Children) Minn. Stat. § 363A.42 (Public Records; Accessibility)
Minn. Stat. § 480.40 (Personal Information, Dissemination)
Minn. Stat. § 626.556 (Reporting of Maltreatment of Minors)
Minn. Rules Parts 1205.0100-1205.2000 (Data Practices)
10 U.S.C. § 503(b) and (c) (Enlistments: Recruiting Campaigns; Compilation of
Directory Information) 18 U.S.C. § 2331 (Definitions)
18 U.S.C. § 2332b (Acts of Terrorism Transcending National Boundaries)
20 U.S.C. § 1232g et seq. (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act)
20 U.S.C. § 6301 et seq. (No Child Left Behind)
20 U.S.C. § 7908 (Armed Forces Recruiting Information)
26 U.S.C. §§ 151 and 152 (Internal Revenue Code)
34 C.F.R. §§ 99.1-99.67 (Family Educational Rights and Privacy)
34 C.F.R. § 300.610-300.627 (Confidentiality of Information)
42 C.F.R. § 2.1 et seq. (Confidentiality of Drug Abuse Patient Records)
Gonzaga University v. Doe, 536 U.S. 273, 122 S.Ct. 2268, 153 L.Ed. 2d 309
(2002)
Cross References: RAS Policy 414 (Mandated Reporting of Child Neglect or Physical or Sexual
Abuse)
RAS Policy 417 (Chemical Use and Abuse)
DRAFT
RAS Policy 506 (Student Discipline)
RAS Policy 519 (Interviews of Students by Outside Agencies)
RAS Policy 520 (Student Surveys)
RAS Policy 711 (Video Recording on School Buses)
RAS Policy 906 (Community Notification of Predatory Offenders)
RAS Policy 102.1 (Equity)