Robbinsdale Area Schools - Superintendent Search
Round 1 Interview Schedule
1. Call meeting to order
2. Approve agenda
3. Interview semi-finalists for superintendent position
4. Select finalists for Round 2 interviews
5. Review Round 2 interview questions and schedule
6. Adjourn
Note: The below order is subject to change.
Saturday, April 6, 2024
8:00 am Call School Board meeting to order
8:15 am * CANDIDATE 1
9:30 am * CANDIDATE 2
10:45 am * CANDIDATE 3
11:45 am * Break
12:15 pm * CANDIDATE 4
1:30 pm * CANDIDATE 5
2:45 pm * CANDIDATE 6
3:45 pm * Break
4:15 pm * School Board deliberates and decides on Round 2
interview candidates, questions, schedule, and reference checks
*Times are approximate.
All interviews will be held in the Education Service Center Boardroom and are open to the public. To ensure a level playing field for all candidates the interviews will not be livestreamed.

Robbinsdale Area Schools - Superintendent Search
Round 2 Interview Schedule
1. Call meeting to order
2. Approve agenda
3. Interview finalists for superintendent position
4. Select lone finalist and set negotiations process
5. Adjourn
Note: The below order is subject to change.
Thursday, April 11, 2024
5:00 pm Call School Board meeting to order
5:05 pm * CANDIDATE 1
6:20 pm * CANDIDATE 2
7:35 pm * CANDIDATE 3
8:35 pm * Break
9:15 pm * School Board deliberates, selects lone finalist, and sets negotiations process
*Times are approximate.
All interviews will be held in the Education Service Center Boardroom and are open to the public. To ensure a level playing field for all candidates the interviews will not be livestreamed.

Robbinsdale Area Schools Superintendent Search
Candidate Interviews
Suggested welcome by the Board Chair:
Good evening, and welcome to Robbinsdale Area Schools. Thank you for meeting with us about becoming our district's superintendent.
Tonight our school board members will rotate asking you questions, and we will all be taking notes. Please know we are listening carefully and do not intend to be disrespectful. We have provided a copy of the questions for you. Please note, there are TBD questions and our last question will be whether you have any questions for us.
The interview is scheduled for one hour, and MSBA will notify us when there are 30 minutes, 15
minutes, and 5 minutes remaining in our allotted time.
I'd like to open this interview by asking each school board member to introduce themselves.
[Board members - please limit introductions to your name and years on the school board. Do not provide personal information about yourself or it may prompt the candidate to do the same.]
Thank you, board members. We will now begin with our first question.
Questions for the Candidate
School board members will ask all questions until complete. When the candidate asks questions of the board, the Board Chair will facilitate the conversation.
Board members should be taking notes for each question and record their evaluation of the candidate's answer. At some point after the interviews, Board members must complete the electronic EMD form for each candidate.
Closing Comments / Wrap-up
Suggested closing by the Board Chair:
Thank you so much for joining us. We will be in contact after the school board has finished our deliberations.
Interview Concludes
Candidate and School Board members end the interview. Each board member completes and submits the EMD form provided by MSBA.
MSBA representatives collect and tally all Board input to assist in Board deliberations.
Upon conclusion of the search, it is recommended school board members turn in their notes from each interview to a designated district employee. These notes will be kept in accordance with the district's data retention records for personnel data.

Robbinsdale Area Superintendent Search
Board Deliberations
Candidate Deliberation Process
The Chair will use this document to help guide the Board through their deliberations, but does not read it out loud. The steps are as follows:
First MSBA will provide an overview of the EMD results (evaluation interview forms completed by
Board members for each candidate). The Board will not discuss these results nor rank the candidates, as this tally is simply meant to provide information on how your fellow Board members evaluated the candidates on each of their answers during their individual interviews.
Next the School Board will briefly discuss the strengths of each candidate:
• Round 1 / Round 2: Share strengths of ___(name)____ (1-2 strengths per Board member).
Continue until all strengths of the candidate have been identified and each Board member has had an opportunity to speak.
• Round 2: Board member who did reference checks on finalists gives a verbal report.
• Round 2: If any audience input forms were submitted, MSBA then summarizes this information regarding ___(name) ___ for the Board.
Repeat this process for each individual candidate. Start with a different Board member each time.
Following discussion of candidate strengths, the Board will then:
• Individually share whom you are leaning toward inviting back for a second interview (or after
Round 2, whom you are leaning toward for your final selection). Do not rank. See if a consensus begins to build among a majority of the Board and continue discussions until a slate of second round candidates (or after Round 2, a final candidate) can be identified.
• Note: if discussions plateau and the Board feels stuck, identifying growth opportunities could help move the Board toward clearer consensus on the candidates. Remember to circle back to candidate strengths as needed.
• Motion / Second / Any Discussion / Vote.
MSBA will call all candidates with the Board's decision. A sample press release will also be provided to the district contact person for distribution to the appropriate news outlets.
TBD after Round 1: Discuss and confirm Round 2 logistics
1. Round 2 interview questions
2. Round 2 interview schedule
3. Reference check process of Round 2 candidates
4. Negotiations process and parameters
TBD after Round 2: Discuss and confirm selection logistics
1. Negotiations process and parameters
2. Background check process
3. Timeline for approving contract
Adjourn

MSBA process - vetting candidates for presentation to the Board
After the application deadline has passed, a team of MSBA service providers and staff review all completed applications. MSBA will look at their licensure, references and recommendations, and work and educational history. We then align each applicant's background, experience and application information with the district's hiring criteria, leadership profile, and feedback gathered from district stakeholders on the next superintendent's desirable skills, traits, and experience.
After reviewing all completed applications, each member of the vetting team rates all applicants on a 5-point scale and an aggregate rating is compiled.
Next the team meets to discuss the ratings and evaluate which applicants have risen to the top and why. Following a lengthy discussion, consensus is reached on which applicants to consider presenting to the Board due to their alignment with the hiring criteria and the district's needs.
This results in the team conducting additional vetting on 6-10 applicants. This vetting includes team members conducting a phone interview with each applicant, holding conversations with at least three of their listed references, and a closer look into each applicant's qualifications. The result is the final list of applicants MSBA recommends be presented to the Board for interview consideration.
At the candidate presentation meeting with the Board, MSBA will share our recommendations.
After hearing short verbal presentations on each applicant, the Board will then discuss the applicant pool (by alphabet identifier only to abide by data privacy laws) and request clarification from MSBA as needed (recognizing our responses will also be somewhat limited due to privacy laws). The Board then has three options:
• Accept the recommendations made by MSBA for first round interviews as presented.
• Accept some applicants recommended by MSBA but replace others with candidates identified by the Board.
• Forfeit all candidates recommended by MSBA and select an entirely new slate of applicants identified by the Board.
A motion will then be made, seconded, and passed (again, using alphabet identifiers only). Once this motion has passed, the Board Chair or MSBA will read aloud the names of those selected for first round interviews. These names will be in no particular order and not tied to their alphabet identifiers.
MSBA will then call these applicants to congratulate them, confirm their interest in the position, and inform them they will receive an email from MSBA's application software (Revelus) to schedule their interview. Once all interviews are scheduled, MSBA will send each interviewee an email containing final information for their interview. Finally, applicants not selected for interviews will receive an email thanking them for their interest in the position, and notifying them that the Board has chosen to proceed with other candidates who more closely align with the district's hiring criteria.

Sample Motion to Offer First Round Interviews
"I move to extend an offer for first round interviews for the Robbinsdale
Area Schools superintendency to the following candidates: [Candidate A],
[Candidate B], [Candidate C], [etc.]."
Sample Motion to Offer Second Round Interviews
"I move to extend an offer for second round interviews for the Robbinsdale
Area Schools superintendency to the following candidates: [NAME],
[NAME], and [NAME]."
Sample Motion to Select a New Superintendent
"I move to extend the offer of an employment contract for the position of
Robbinsdale Area Schools Superintendent to [NAME] contingent upon the following: that a mutually-agreeable employment contract is negotiated, and a criminal background check is completed with results acceptable to the School Board."
NOTE: The parties understand that if any of these contingencies are not accomplished, the offer is withdrawn. The candidate cannot accept this offer until the contingencies are successfully resolved. A deadline can be extended by board action.

Sample Motion to Select a New Superintendent - Plan A / Plan B
"I move to extend the offer of an employment contract for the position of
Robbinsdale Area Schools Superintendent to [NAME] contingent upon the following: that a mutually-agreeable employment contract is negotiated, and a criminal background check is completed with results acceptable to the School Board.
In the event that the chair determines a mutually-agreeable employment contract is not attainable, the chair is authorized to extend the offer of an employment contract for the position of Robbinsdale Area Schools
Superintendent to [NAME] contingent upon the following: that a mutuallyagreeable employment contract is negotiated, and a criminal background check is completed with results acceptable to the School Board."
NOTE: The parties understand that if any of these contingencies are not accomplished, the offer is withdrawn. The candidate cannot accept this offer until the contingencies are successfully resolved. A deadline can be extended by board action.