To: Members of the School Board
From: Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Ukee Dozier, School Management Systems
Date: April 2, 2024
Re: Tentative Agreement - Nutrition Services
District Administration is recommending the approval of a two-year Nutrition Services contract with effective dates of July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2025. The following items have been negotiated and the contract has been ratified.
Financial Highlights:
● The two-year agreement calls for a salary schedule increase of $2.25 2023-2024 and 5%
2024-2025
● The two-year agreement calls for an increase into the employees cafeteria plan of $107 year one and $100 dollars year two
● Career Increment changes of $100 increase in year one and $100 increase in year two
● Deferred Compensation increase of $100 year one and increase $100 year two
● Training, Conventions and Seminars Up to $220 toward state or national conference registration per school year
Additional Highlights:
● Employees have the right to request and be allowed payroll deduction for the Union and for the Union's political action committee. The District will commence deductions within thirty days of receiving notice from the Union of the authorized deduction(s). The District will remit deductions to the Union within thirty days of the deduction.
The notice will include certification from the Union that the Union has and will maintain a signed authorization from the employee for whom deductions will be made. A valid signed authorization includes, but is not limited to, an electronically signed authorization. The District may require a copy of the signed authorization form only if a dispute arises about the existence or terms of the authorization. The dues deduction authorization remains in effect until the
District receives notice from the Union that an employee has changed or canceled their authorization in writing in accordance with the terms of the original authorizing document.
The Union will indemnify the District for any successful claims made by an employee for unauthorized deductions made in reliance upon certification or information received from the
Union.
● Within ten (10) calendar days from the date of hire of an employee, the District will provide the following contact information to the Union: name, job title, worksite location (including location within a facility when appropriate), home address, work telephone number, home and personal cell phone numbers on file with the District, date of hire, work email address, personal email address on file with the District, wage, number of hours normally scheduled in a day, number of duty days contracted for, and whether the position is a nine (9) month or twelve (12)
month assignment. The District will provide this information to the Union in a format acceptable to the Union.

On request and every 120 calendar days the District shall provide to the Union in an Excel file or similar format agreed to by the Union the following information for all bargaining unit employees: name; job title; worksite location, including location within a facility when appropriate; home address; work telephone number; home and personal cell phone numbers on file with the District; date of hire; and work email address and personal email address on file with the District.
The District must notify an exclusive representative within ten (10) calendar days of the separation of employment or transfer out of the bargaining unit of a bargaining unit employee.
● Orientation meetings will be in pay status. The District will provide at least ten days notice in advance of an orientation. Orientation will be held in person.
The School District will provide the Union steward with the name and work location of each new employee when that employee begins work with the school district. The School District will also provide the union steward's name and work location to each new employee.
The District will allow a Union designated representative to meet in person with newly hired employees for thirty minutes within thirty calendar days from the date of hire, during new employee orientations or (if the District does not conduct new employee orientations) at individual or group meetings. All employees participating in these med the union steward may meet the new employee 30 minutes before or after the orientation session. If the union steward is unable to meet with the new employee, they may meet virtually.
● The District will allow the Union to communicate with bargaining unit members using their employer-issued email addresses regarding collective bargaining, the administration of the collective bargaining agreement, the investigation of grievances, other workplace-related complaints and issues, and internal matters involving the governance or business of the Union, consistent with the District's generally applicable technology use policies.
The District will allow the Union to meet with bargaining unit members in District facilities regarding collective bargaining, the administration of the collective bargaining agreement, grievances and other workplace-related complaints and issues, and internal matters involving the governance or business of the Union, provided such use does not interfere with the
District's business operations.
● Nutrition services employees will be granted one day of sick leave per month from September through May of each school year. Unused sick leave shall be allowed to accumulate to an unlimited amount. A day of sick leave shall be for the same number of hours as the employee is regularly scheduled to work.
A nutrition services employee may be required to submit a physician's certification of illness for absences of three consecutive days or more prior to returning to work. The final determination as to the eligibility of an employee for sick leave is reserved for the school district.
Sick leave may be used by an employee for illness, or for medical and/or dental appointments for immediate family members as defined in Minnesota Statute 181.9413 or legal guardian.
Requests to have such family care leaves deducted from sick leave are to be directed to the
Executive Director of Human Resources. The leave may be defined as Family Medical Leave of
Absence (FMLA). The district does require that FMLA be deducted from accrued sick leave.
For the purpose of sick leave usage, immediate family is defined as an employee's child

(including stepchild, biological child, adopted child, and foster child), adult child, spouse, domestic partner, sibling, parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchild (grandchild includes step-grandchild, biological grandchild, adopted and foster grandchildren), grandparent or stepparent.
● Pursuant to MN Statute 181.9413, employees may use accumulated sick leave benefits for absences due to safety leave for the employee's child, adult child, spouse, sibling, parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchild, grandparent, or stepparent for reasonable periods of time as the employee's attendance may be necessary and on the same terms upon which the employee is able to use sick leave benefits for the employee's own illness or injury.
b. Safety Leave: assistance to the employee or assistance to the relatives of an employee for the purpose of providing or receiving assistance because of sexual assault, domestic abuse, or stalking. (MN Statute 181.9413).
c. The District may limit the use of safety leave benefits provided by the District for absences due to a safety leave for relatives as outlined above, to no less than one-hundred sixty (160)
hours in any twelve (12) month period. This does not apply to the illness or injury of a child, as defined by MN Statute 181.940, subdivision 4.
● Nutrition services employees will receive ten (10) paid holidays and paid days off. Paid holidays and paid days off include: Friday of Teachers Convention, Thanksgiving, day after Thanksgiving,
Martin Luther King Jr. birthday, Presidents' Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday and Memorial Day and two (2) floaters scheduled on non-work days. Paid holidays cover all employees who work fourteen (14) hours or more per week.
● Eligibility for a paid holiday requires working the scheduled workday before or the scheduled work day after a holiday. Example: A Monday holiday requires attendance on Friday or
Tuesday, and a Tuesday holiday requires attendance on Monday or Wednesday, except in case of serious illness. Employees who work summer feeding and Adventure Club program(s) shall also receive July 4th and Juneteenth as paid holidays if they work the day before or the day after Juneteenth or the Friday before or the Monday after the 4th of July week.