Marsh McLennan Agency
6160 Golden Hills Drive
Minneapolis MN 55416
+1 763 746 8000
MarshMMA.com
May 15, 2024
Virginia Verbrugge
Assistant Finance Director
4148 Winnetka Avenue N.
New Hope, MN 55427
Dear Ms. Verbrugge,
Marsh McLennan Agency is very proud to partner with Robbinsdale School District #281 for their risk management and property & casualty insurance needs. Minnesota public schools continue to face a number of challenges including budget constraints, staffing shortages, cyber-attacks, bullying, violent events, social media, claims of failure to educate, etc. These challenges are continuing to flow through in the form of more frequent and severe insurance claims, which is putting continued stress on the schools and the school insurance market.
In addition to these liability issues, the property insurance market continues to grow increasingly challenging for a combination or reasons including increased cost of construction, and increased frequency & severity of large claims. The US set records last year with the most weather disaster events resulting in at least $1 billion in damages with 28 separate disasters totalling $65 billion in losses alone. We used to largely associate CAT losses with hurricanes or wildfires on the coasts, but there was only one hurricane that made landfall last year as part of those 28 events, and convective storms with tornadoes, damaging winds and hail are taking a toll in the US, and th specifically The Upper Midwest. Minnesota is now the 4 worst state for severe convective storm losses in the entire country since 2010 and we had another $1Billion+ hailstorm hit the Minneapolis metro area last year. In addition to the increased frequency & severity issues, construction costs continue to increase as the cost to construct or replace school buildings is now $350-$400 per square foot (on average). Robbinsdale Schools has benefited from very strong and broad coverage which includes full replacement cost with no coinsurance restriction for the values. For these reasons, the insurance carriers have pushed to increase the insurance rating value base for Robbinsdale Schools up closer to the full replacement cost for construction in today's dollars, which would've resulted in significantly increased premium costs for the district. However, we were able to put a plan and agreement in place with Liberty 4 years ago to cap those increases to a maximum of 10% per year through our partnership. This plan was instrumental as Marsh McLennan Agency was able to negotiate and reduce Liberty's initial quote offering by over $50,000 at last year's renewal alone, in addition to greater savings from the prior years.
The district's core package property and liability carrier partner has been Liberty Mutual Insurance over the past 4
years. Liberty has been losing significant money in their school book of business - largely driven by storms and property losses. We have had the benefit of negotiating property rates and overall premium for Robbinsdale
Schools that have been significantly lower than the rest of the market for a number of years. But due to the losses, the insurance carriers were indicating and pushing for significant rate increases, higher retentions and more restrictive terms heading into this 2024 renewal. Our school team at Marsh McLennan Agency works with over 160 schools in MN alone. So, we were able to anticipate the changes, negotiate and leverage our size, strength and relationships with Liberty and other carrier partners, and most importantly proactively work with some of our other largest partners in this space to put together very competitive options in a very stressed and shrinking insurance carrier market for schools.
The district and their team lead by Virginia and Karylanne and their facilities and IT teams worked very hard to provide all of the necessary information, applications, and on-site property assessments for the insurance carriers. MMA negotiated hard with our top carrier programs that had the capacity to take on the district in this challenging market. These collective efforts paid huge dividends in the end with aligning a significantly improved program solution through Affiliated FM as the lead Property Insurance Carrier, and Hanover Insurance on the rest of the core liability lines.
A business of Marsh McLennan
Marsh & McLennan Agency LLC

We knew that pricing was going to increase fairly significantly because of the low valuations we negotiated in prior years that was coming up on expiration of our 3 year cap agreement, in combination with the below market rates.
Liberty proposed a 32% premium increase to the property insurance premium, which actually was fair when compared to the rest of the school market for valuation and rate. They were also pushing to add restrictive terms to only cover the depreciated amount for any roof sections that might be damaged that are 15 years or older, which is becoming much more standard in the market. However, the condition that we were going to find most challenging and stressful was applying a new 1% wind and hail deductible (based on the building value) at each location. This would result in significantly greater risk (over $1Million potential deductible at the high schools alone) - which we wanted to avoid for the district if at all possible.
The district's facilities team was great in working with the loss control specialists at Chubb and Affiliated FM for walkthroughs and assessments at the schools - which allowed their underwriters to get comfortable with the risk and offer much more competitive proposals with better terms, conditions, and especially lower retentions.
Ultimately, Affiliated FM offered the most competitive proposal for the property that was lowest in premium, but most importantly provided the lowest wind & hail deductible at $100,000 per location - compared to $750,000 per occurrence with Chubb and 1% of the building values with Liberty. Affiliated FM is a premier national carrier that is a leader in the property insurance market with strong financials and great service and support including loss control and claims support. However, they only insure property. Therefore, we worked with Hanover Insurance who is a leading insurance carrier with dedicated resources and a strong partner in the school space as evidenced by their partnership with us as part of the MSBA Insurance Trust program. Hanover was able to provide a very competitive quote for all of the casualty and package lines, to partner up perfectly with Affliiated FM
to provide the package protection needed for Robbinsdale Schools. Hanover is also providing the same liability limits to protect the district; at the same time they are also providing lower deductibles compared to Liberty.
Both insurance carriers initially included standard commissions in their quote proposals which is built into the premiums. We had both carriers reduce those commissions to help offset as much of the cost as possible. The reduction in commissions equated to savings of $40,296 for the combined Affiliated and Hanover package premiums. Total combined premium for those lines is now $769,943.29.
Another very challenging area of insurance for schools is Cyber Liability, as we continue to see and experience high profile cyber breaches in schools across the country, and also here in Minnesota. We've had the benefit of dedicated Cyber Insurance through Beazley Insurance who is a leader in this space. With that, the insurance company continues to be very thorough with their underwriting process and required level of cyber security controls needed to qualify for broad coverage protection. We worked very closely with Joel Mehring who was a great partner and worked very hard to not only provide the applications and detailed information, but most importantly continuing to improve the districts security controls and communication along the way. Some critical areas that Joel worked to enhance and further protect the district included Multi Factor Authentication for the district's vendors with VPN access, and also closing down all open ports. We worked very closely with the underwriter who was only going to be able to offer lower limits and more restrictive terms when these areas were identified. Joel and his team worked hard and communicated in those areas which allowed us to negotiate enhanced coverage at the limits needed for both liability and first party expenses for the district. This was a huge win that now includes necessary coverage for the district for cyber breaches and ransomware attacks.
Robbinsdale Schools has continued to invest and strengthen their IT security controls which has been a key component to obtaining dedicated cyber liability insurance coverage at a manageable cost.
Total proposed annual premium for all insurance lines including Property, Casualty, Cyber, International and
Volunteer protection is $823,481.75, which represents a 20% increase overall when compared to the expiring term. The property insurance is the largest driver in the increase as expected, but other significant factors included increased exposure for property values and also the auto fleet is up when compared to the auto fleet at last year's renewal. Although we understand that nobody wants to pay more for insurance, we are very pleased with the overall result for Robbinsdale Schools - especially considering the challenges in the market and potential for significantly higher retentions and risk.
Marsh McLennan will continue to work with the district to proactively manage their complex risks while keeping the insurance costs as manageable as possible given the market conditions. Marsh McLennan Agency is the
Marsh & McLennan Agency LLC

leading broker for public school districts in the state, and the endorsed broker partner for Property & Casualty
Insurance by the Minnesota School Board Association.
We appreciate the continued partnership and look forward to continuing to support and service the district in any way that we can.
Sincerely,
Patrick Truax, AIA
Risk Consultant
Schools & Public Entities
Marsh McLennan Agency
Marsh & McLennan Agency LLC