Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Approved July 22, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, July 8, 2024, beginning at 6:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Cail

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m., and welcomed Dr. Teri Staloch, our new Superintendent.
Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda.

Director Holmes made a motion to amend the agenda to add an open discussion regarding a Facebook post and to act upon unbecoming behavior by a Board of Education member outside of Board meetings, Chair Bowman seconded the motion and recommended it be added as agenda item 5. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same:
Directors Bassett and Brooks. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Director Holmes made a motion to amend the agenda to add an open discussion and act upon the failure to complete the early intervention piece of mediation and funding approved by the Board of Education by 6-1 vote on May 6, 2024,
Chair Bowman seconded the motion and recommended it be added as agenda item 6. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bassett, Brooks, and Evans-Becker. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Director Brooks made a motion to move Operations item 4.A. Resolution to Establish a School Board Ad Hoc
Committee - Governance Policy 200 Series from Action to Non-Action, Director Bassett seconded the motion.

Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Director Bassett made a motion to add an open discussion regarding unbecoming behavior by three Board of
Education members, Director Brooks seconded the motion, and Chair Bowman recommended it be added as agenda item 7. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Brooks, Evans-Becker, and Holmes. And the following voted against the same: Directors Long and Vento. Chair Bowman abstained from voting. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Director Evans-Becker moved to accept the agenda with all of the approved amendments, and Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Evans-Becker. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Superintendent Update

Superintendent Staloch provided an update on her first week in the district. She visited summer programs at
Sandburg including Freedom Schools' Harambee and classrooms, the Basement School Age Care program; as well as Noble Adventure Club and College and Career Now. Superintendent Staloch will be meeting with individual Board and Cabinet members in the next few weeks, as well as starting to meet with community members.

Operations

A. Non-Action: Resolution to Establish a School Board Ad Hoc Committee - Governance Policy 200 Series
Chair Bowman brought this topic forward offering to prepare the 200 series to bring forward to the Policy
Committee with Directors Evans-Becker and Long. Once the Policy Committee received and reviewed them, they would come forward to the entire Board for discussion. It was determined that this would be duplication of other

committees. Chair Bowman will move forward preparing the 200 series for review, and discussion in regard to Ad hoc Committee structure and tightening up the language surrounding them will be coming in the next few months to a Work Session.

B. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee
It was noted that Minnesota School Boards Association Policy 507.5 - School Resource Officers (SROs) will be discussed at the Work Session this evening. The committee will be scheduling their next meeting soon.

C. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee Meeting
The group hasn't met, but looks forward to meeting with Superintendent Staloch.

D. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Update
The work of this group was discussed earlier in this meeting, no further report this evening.

E. Policy Committee Update
The work of this group was discussed earlier in this meeting, no further report this evening.

Discussion of behavior unbecoming to a board member related to a facebook post on June 22 (2024).
Director Holmes moved that Director Bassett apologize for a post on social media on her campaign page and refrain from doing it again. Motion was seconded by Director Bowman. Director Bassett requested for the record that she did not consider that to be her campaign account. Discussion followed. Director Evans-Becker moved to lay this on the table indefinitely. Seconded by Director Bassett. Roll call vote: Yes - Bassett, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Vento. No -
Holmes, Bowman, Long. 4-3 Motion to table carried.

Early Intervention Contract that was voted on on May 6 (2024)

Director Holmes moved to terminate the Early Intervention Mediation Contract that was approved by the board on
May 6, 2024 and pay what we owe up to today's date. Seconded by Director Brooks. Roll Call Vote: Yes - Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, Vento. 7-0 Motion carried.

Behavior unbecoming to three school board directors 1) Behavior of a board member, 2) Posting of a document, 3) A public statement defaming.
After a brief discussion, the board moved on to item 8 (Consent Agenda).

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Chair Bowman moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes,
Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at 8:44 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Adee
Signed: bef cand. Liubol Date: Ha2f902 Y

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281