Robbinsdale Area Schools
Independent School District 2812
Approved September 21, 2020
Revised November, 2024
522 POLICY - TITLE IX SEX NONDISCRIMINATION, GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND
PROCESS
I. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. The school district does not discriminate on the basis of sex, including discrimination on the basis of sex stereotypes, sex characteristics, pregnancy or related conditions, sexual orientation, and gender identity, in any education program or activity that it operates, including in admission and employment. The school district does not discriminate in such a manner in its implementing regulations. The school district is committed to maintaining an education and work environment that is free from discrimination based on sex, including sexual harassment.
B. Except as provided elsewhere under Title IX or its regulations, no person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any academic, extracurricular, research, occupational training, or other education program or activity operated by the school district.
C. The school district prohibits sex-based discrimination or sexual harassment that occurs within its education programs and activities. The school district shall promptly respond in a manner that is prompt and effective.
D. Except as provided therein, Title IX and its regulations apply to all sex discrimination occurring under a school district's education program or activity in the United States.
For the purpose of this paragraph, conduct that occurs under the school district's education program or activity includes but is not limited to conduct that is subject to the school district's disciplinary authority.
The school district has an obligation to address a sex-based hostile environment under its education program or activity, even when some conduct alleged to be contributing to the hostile environment occurred outside the school district's education program or activity or outside the United States.
E. The school district has adopted, published, and implemented grievance procedures consistent with the requirements of 34 Code of Federal Regulations, section 106.45, and if applicable section 106.46, that provide for the prompt and equitable resolution ofDRAFT
complaints made by students, employees, or other individuals who are participating or attempting to participate in the school district's education program or activity, or by the
Title IX Coordinator, alleging any action that would be prohibited by Title IX or its regulations.
F. The school district's obligation to comply with Title IX and its regulations is not obviated or alleviated by the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), 20 United States
Code, section 1232g, or its implementing regulations, 34 Code of Federal Regulations, part

99, or any state law or local law. The obligation to comply is not obviated or alleviated by any rule or regulation of any organization, club, athletic or other league, or association which would render any applicant or student ineligible to participate or limit the eligibility or participation of any applicant or student, on the basis of sex, in any education program or activity operated by the school district and which receives Federal financial assistance.
G. The school district has an obligation to address a sex-based hostile environment under its education program or activity, even when some conduct alleged to be contributing to the hostile environment occurred outside the school district's education program or activity or outside the United States.
H. Nothing in Title IX or its regulations may be read in derogation of any legal right of a parent, guardian, or other authorized legal representative to act on behalf of a complainant, respondent, or other person, subject to Paragraph F of this section, including but not limited to making a complaint through the school district's grievance procedures for complaints of sex discrimination.
I. In the limited circumstances in which Title IX or its regulations permits different treatment or separation on the basis of sex, the school district must not carry out such different treatment or separation in a manner that discriminates on the basis of sex by subjecting a person to more than de minimis harm, except as permitted by 20 United States Code, section 1681(a)(1) through (9) and the corresponding regulations sections 106.12 through
106.15, 20 United States Code, section 1686 and its corresponding regulation section
106.32(b)(1), or section 106.41(b). Adopting a policy or engaging in a practice that prevents a person from participating in an education program or activity consistent with the person's gender identity subjects a person to more than de minimis harm on the basis of sex.
J. Any student, parent, or guardian having questions regarding the application of Title IX and its regulations and/or this policy and grievance process should discuss them with the Title
IX Coordinator. The school district's Title IX Coordinator(s) is/are:
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources amy_ohern@rdale.org | 763-504-8014
Inquiries about Title IX and its regulations may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator(s), the United States Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights, or both.
K. To report information about conduct that may constitute sex discrimination or make a complaint of sex discrimination under Title IX, please refer to rdale.org
L. The effective date of this policy is August 1, 2024, and applies to alleged violations of thisDRAFT
policy occurring on or after August 1, 2024.
II. PROCESS
The Superintendent is directed to develop Administrative Procedures for Title IX Sex,
Nondiscrimination Policy, Grievance Procedure and Process.

Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 121A.04 (Athletic Programs; Sex Discrimination)
Minn. Stat. §§ 121A.40 - 121A.575 (Minnesota Pupil Fair Dismissal Act)
Minn. Stat. Ch. 363A (Minnesota Human Rights Act)
20 U.S.C. §§ 1681-1688 (Title IX of the Education Amendments)
34 C.F.R. Part 106 (Implementing Regulations of Title IX)
20 U.S.C § 1400, et seq. (Individuals with Disabilities Education Act)
29 U.S.C. § 794 (Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act)
42 U.S.C. § 12101, et seq. (Americans with Disabilities Act)
20 U.S.C. § 1232g (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974)
20 U.S.C. § 1092 et seq. (Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security and Campus
Crime Statistics Act ("Clery Act")
Cross References: RAS 102.1 (Equity Policy)
DRAFT