Robbinsdale Area Schools
Independent School District 281
Adopted: October 21, 2024
708.1 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE - TRANSPORTATION OF NONPUBLIC SCHOOL
STUDENTS
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this procedure is to address transportation rights of nonpublic school students and to provide equality of treatment in transporting such students pursuant to law.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT
The school district is to recognize the rights of nonpublic school students and to provide equal transportation to those students as required by law.
III. ELIGIBILITY
A. The school district shall provide equal transportation within the district for all students to any school when transportation is deemed necessary by the school district because of distance or traffic conditions in like manner and form as provided in Minnesota Statutes, sections 123B.88 and 123B.92 when applicable.
B. Upon the request of a parent or guardian, the school district must provide school bus transportation to the school district boundary for students residing in the school district at least the same distance from a nonpublic school actually attended in another school district as public school students are transported in the transporting school district.
Such transportation must be provided whether or not there is another nonpublic school within the transporting school district, if the transportation is to schools maintaining grades or departments not maintained in the school district or if the attendance of such students at school can more safely, economically, or conveniently be provided for by such means.
C. The school district may provide school bus transportation to a nonpublic school in another school district for students residing in the school district and attending that school, whether there is or is not another nonpublic school within the transporting school district, if the transportation is to schools maintaining grades or departments not maintained in the school district or if the attendance of such students at school can more safely, economically, or conveniently be provided for by such means. If the school district transports students to a
Draft nonpublic school located in another school district, the nonpublic school mustshall pay the cost of such transportation provided outside the school district boundaries.
D. The school district must provide the necessary transportation within school district boundaries between the nonpublic school and a public school or neutral site for nonpublic school students who are provided pupil support services if the school district elects to provide pupil support services at a site other than a nonpublic school.
E. When transportation is provided, the scheduling of routes, manner and method of

transportation, control and discipline of students, and any other matter relating thereto shall be within the sole discretion, control, and management of the school district. A nonpublic or charter school student transported by the school district shall comply with school district student bus conduct and student bus discipline policies.
F. The school board and a nonpublic school may mutually agree to a written plan for the board to provide nonpublic pupil transportation to nonpublic school students. The school district must report the number of nonpublic school students transported and the nonpublic pupil transportation expenditures incurred in the form and manner specified by the
Minnesota Commissioner of Education.
G. If the school board provides pupil transportation through the school's employees, the school board may transport nonpublic school students according to the plan and retain the nonpublic pupil transportation aid attributable to that plan. A nonpublic school may make a payment to the school district to cover additional transportation services agreed to in the written plan for nonpublic pupil transportation services not required under Minnesota
Statutes, sections 123B.84 to 123B.87.
H. A school board that contracts for pupil transportation services may enter into a contractual arrangement with a school bus contractor according to the written plan adopted by the school board and the nonpublic school to transport nonpublic school students and retain the nonpublic pupil transportation aid attributable to that plan for the purposes of paying the school bus contractor. A nonpublic school may make a payment to the school district to cover additional transportation services agreed to in the written plan for nonpublic pupil transportation services included in the contract that are not required under Minnesota
Statutes, sections 123B.84 to 123B.87.
I. Additional transportation to and from a nonpublic school may be provided at the expense of the school district when such services are provided in the discretion of the school district.
IV. STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES
A. If a resident student with a disability attends a nonpublic school located within the school district, the school district must provide necessary transportation for the student within the school district between the nonpublic school and the educational facility where special instruction and services are provided on a shared-time basis. If a resident student with a disability attends a nonpublic school located in another school district and if no agreement
Draft exists for the provision of special instruction and services on a shared time basis to that student by the school district of attendance and where the special instruction and services are provided within the school district, the school district mustshall provide necessary transportation for that student between the school district boundary and the educational facility. The school district may provide necessary transportation for that student between its boundary and the nonpublic school attended, but the nonpublic school shall must pay the cost of transportation provided outside the school district boundary. School districts may make agreements for who provides transportation. Parties serving students on a shared time basis have access to a due process hearing system as provided by law.

B. When the disabling conditions of a student with a disability are such that the student cannot be safely transported on the regular school bus and/or school bus route and/or when the student is transported on a special route for the purpose of attending an approved special education program, the student shall be entitled to special transportation at the expense of the school district or the day training and habilitation program attended by the student.
The school district shall determine the type of vehicle used to transport students with a disability on the basis of the disabling conditions and applicable laws. This section shall not be applicable to parents who transport their own child under a contract with the school district.
C. Each driver and aide assigned to a vehicle transporting students with a disability must (1)
be instructed in basic first aid and procedures for the students under their care: (2) within one month after the effective date of assignment, participate in a program of in-service training on the proper methods of dealing with the specific needs and problems of students with disabilities; (3) assist students with disabilities on and off the bus when necessary for their safe ingress and egress from the bus; and (4) ensure that proper safety devices are in use and fastened properly.
D. Each driver and aide assigned to a vehicle transporting students with a disability shall have available to them the following information in hard copy or immediately accessible through a two-way communication system: (1) the student's name and address; (2) the nature of the student's disabilities; (3) emergency health care information; and (4) the names and telephone numbers of the student's physician, parents, guardians, or custodians, and some person other than the student's parents or custodians who can be contacted in case of an emergency.
E. Any parent of a student with a disability who believes that the transportation services provided for that child are not in compliance with the applicable law may utilize the due process procedures provided for in Minnesota Statutes chapter 125A.
V. APPLICATION OF GENERAL POLICY
The provisions of the school district's policy on transportation of public school students [Model
Policy 707] shall apply to the transportation of nonpublic school students except as specifically provided herein.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 123B.44 (Provision of Pupil Support Services)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.84 (Policy)
Draft
Minn. Stat. § 123B.86 (Equal Treatment)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.88 (Independent School Districts, Transportation)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.91, Subd. 1a (School District Bus Safety Requirements)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.92 (Transportation Aid Entitlement)
Minn. Stat. Ch. 125A (Special Education and Special Programs)
Minn. Stat. § 125A.18 (Special Instruction; Nonpublic Schools)
Minn. Rules Part 7470.1600 (Transporting Pupils with Disability)
Minn. Rules Part 7470.1700 (Drivers and Aides for Pupils with Disability)

Americans United, Inc. as Protestants and Other Am. United for Separation of
Church and State, et al. v. Independent Sch. Dist. No. 622, et al., 288 Minn. 1996,
179 N.W.2d 146 (Minn. 1970)
Eldredge v. Independent Sch. Dist. No. 625, 422 N.W.2d 319 (Minn. Ct. App. 1988)
th
Healy v. Independent Sch. Dist. No. 625, 962 F.2d 1304 (8 Cir. 1992)
Minn. Op. Atty. Gen. 166a-7 (June 3, 1983)
Minn. Op. Atty. Gen. 166a-7 (Sept. 14, 1981)
Minn. Op. Atty. Gen. 166a-7 (July 15, 1976)
Minn. Op. Atty. Gen. 166a-7 (July 17, 1970)
Minn. Op. Atty. Gen. 166a-7 (Oct. 3, 1969)
Minn. Op. Atty. Gen. 166a-7 (Sept. 12, 1969)
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 707 (Transportation of Public School Students)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 709 (Student Transportation Safety Policy)
RAS Policy 707 (Transportation of Public School Students)
RAS Policy 709 (Student Transportation Safety Policy)
Draft