SUPERINTENDENT'S CONTRACT
ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOL DISTRICT
JULY 1, 2024 TO JUNE 30, 2027

PREAMBLE

This Contract is entered into between Independent School District No. 281, Robbinsdale
Area School District, Minnesota, ("School District"), and Dr. Teri Staloch, ("Superintendent"), a legally qualified and licensed superintendent who agrees to perform the duties of the
Superintendent of the School District. The School District and Superintendent may be referred to individually at "Party" and collectively as "Parties".

ARTICLE I
APPLICABLE STATUTE

This Contract for Superintendent Services is entered into between the School District and the Superintendent in conformance with and governed by Minn. Stat. 123B.143.

ARTICLE II
LICENSURE

The Superintendent shall furnish the School Board, throughout the Term of this Contract, a valid and appropriate license to act as superintendent in the State of Minnesota as provided by applicable laws, rules, and regulations.

ARTICLE II]
DURATION, EXPIRATION, TERMINATION
DURING THE TERM, MUTUAL CONSENT, AND CONTINGENCY

Section 1. Duration: This Contract is for a term of three (3) years commencing on
July 1, 2024, and ending on June 30, 2027 ("Term"). It shall remain in full force and effect unless modified by mutual consent of the School District and the Superintendent or unless terminated as provided in this Contract.

Section 2. Expiration: This Contract shall expire at the end of the Term specified in
Section 1 above. At the conclusion of its Term, neither Party shall have any further claim against the other, and the School District's employment of the Superintendent shall cease, unless a subsequent Contract is entered into in accordance with Minn. Stat. 123B.143, Subd. 1.

Section 3. Termination During the Term: The Superintendent's employment may be terminated during the Term only for cause as defined in Minn. Stat. 122A.40, Subd. 9 and
Subd. 13, but, except for purposes of describing grounds for discharge, the provisions of Minn.
Stat. 122A.40 shall not be applicable. If the School Board proposes to terminate the
Superintendent during the Term of this Contract for cause as described in Minn, Stat. 122A.40,
Subd. 9 or Subd. 13, it shall notify the Superintendent in writing of the proposed grounds for termination. The Superintendent shall be entitled to a hearing before an arbitrator provided the
Superintendent makes such a request in writing to the School Board Chair within fifteen (15)
calendar days after receipt of the written notice of the proposed termination. In such event, the
Parties shall jointly petition the Minnesota Bureau of Mediation Services ("BMS") for a list of five (5) arbitrators. The arbitrator shall be selected by the Parties through the striking process as

provided by BMS rules. The arbitrator shall conduct a hearing under arbitration procedure rules and issue a written decision. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the
Parties, subject to judicial review of arbitration decisions as provided by law. The Superintendent may be suspended with pay pending final determination by the arbitrator. If the Superintendent fails to request a hearing as provided in this section within the fifteen (15) day calendar period, the Superintendent shall be deemed to have acquiesced to the School Board's proposed action, and the proposed action shall become final on such date as determined by the School Board, and the Superintendent shall have no further claim or recourse.

Section 4. Notice of Intent: The Superintendent will notify the School Board in writing of their intent not to renew this contract not later than October 31, 2026. Failure of the
School Board to take action authorizing the negotiation of a subsequent Contract by October 31,
2026, will serve as notice to the Superintendent that the School Board will not enter into a subsequent Contract.

Section 5. Subsequent Contract: If the School Board takes action authorizing the negotiation of a subsequent Contract, the Parties will act in good faith to complete negotiations and enter the subsequent Contract before the expiration of the Term this Contract. This action will include a provision that, in the event that negotiations for a subsequent Contract have not been completed by the expiration of this Contract's Term, the Parties will enter into a subsequent
Contract for the term set forth in the School Board's action and that the new subsequent
Contract's compensation and benefits level in the last year of this Contract is the same as in the current Contract pending final negotiations of compensation and benefit terms for the new
Contract.

Section 6. Mutual Consent: This Contract may be terminated at any time by mutual consent of the School Board and the Superintendent.

ARTICLE IV
DUTIES

Section 1. Duties: The Superintendent shall have charge of and be responsible for the administration of the schools under the direction of the School Board. The Superintendent shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the School District; shall direct and assign teachers and other
School District employees under the Superintendent's supervision; shall organize, reorganize, and arrange the administrative and supervisory staff, including instruction and business affairs, as best serves the School District subject to the approval of the School Board; shall select all personnel subject to the approval of the School Board; shall, from time to time, suggest policies, regulations, rules, and procedures deemed necessary for the School District; and, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of the Superintendent and such other duties as may be prescribed by the School Board from time to time. The Superintendent shall abide by the policies, regulations, rules, and procedures established by the School Board and the State of
Minnesota. The Superintendent shall have the right to attend all School Board meetings and all
School Board and citizen committee meetings, serve as an ex-officio member of the School
Board and all School Board committees, and provide administrative recommendations on each item of business considered by each of these groups.

Section 2. Board/Superintendent Relationships. No later than August 1, 2024 and at least annually thereafter, the School Board and Superintendent shall meet to discuss the process and procedures for how the School Board and Superintendent will communicate and work together.
In addition, the School Board, individually and collectively, shall bring to the Superintendent's attention significant criticisms and suggestions regarding the operation of the District and the
Superintendent's performance for his study, review, and if necessary, recommendations and resolution.

Section 3. Superintendent's Evaluation. No later than August 1, 2025 and no later than
August 1 of each subsequent year of the Contract, the School Board will review the
Superintendent's performance and consider a possible extension and other modifications to the
Contract in a closed session pursuant to the Minnesota Open Meeting Law, Minn. Stat. 13D.05.
No later than September 1 of each year of this Contract, the Superintendent and the School
Board shall meet to discuss and agree on annual goals and on an evaluation instrument to be used for the Superintendent's annual evaluation. No later than July 1, 2025 and no later than July 1 of each year of this Contract, the Superintendent shall provide the School Board a self-appraisal using the agreed-upon evaluation instrument and the School Board shall take the
Superintendent's self-appraisal into consideration in conducting the Superintendent's annual evaluation. Using the agreed-upon evaluation instrument, the School Board will provide a written summary to the Superintendent. The evaluation will include commendations, suggestions for improvement and/or recommendations. The Superintendent shall have the opportunity to respond to the School Board's evaluation. The Superintendent's evaluation shall be not public.

ARTICLE V
DUTY YEAR AND LEAVES OF ABSENCE

Section 1. Basic Work Year: The Superintendent's duty year shall be for the entire twelve (12) month Contract year, and the Superintendent shall perform duties on those legal holidays on which the School Board is authorized to conduct school if the School Board so determines. The Superintendent shall be on duty during any emergency, natural or unnatural, unless otherwise excused in accordance with School Board administrative policy.

Section 2. Personal Time Off ("PTO"): Superintendent shall earn fifty-five (55) working days of annual paid time off ("PTO") each year of the Contract. PTO may be used by the
Superintendent for vacation, personal time, illness, medical appointments, bereavement, family emergencies and for purposes related to the Earned Safe and Sick Time Statute, Minn. Stat.
181.9445-9448. Unused PTO will rollover from year to year and may accumulate without limit.
Upon the Superintendent's voluntary termination of employment or expiration of the Contract, if not offered a subsequent Contract, the Superintendent shall be entitled to payment for any unused PTO earned and accrued to be contributed to Superintendent's 403(b) plan to the extent permitted by applicable law or otherwise payment of unused PTO will be classified as taxable income and will be included in Superintendent's final regular salary payment. Such plan shall be separate from and in addition to any other plans of the same type maintained by the District not wholly and solely funded with converted paid leave. However, if the Superintendent is involuntarily terminated by the School Board, the Superintendent shall not be entitled to payment of unused earned and accrued PTO.

The Superintendent may elect not to use and be reimbursed for up to fifteen (15) days of
PTO at their daily rate of pay for those unused PTO days at the conclusion of the Contract year.
The payment of unused PTO will be contributed to Superintendent's 403(b) plan to the extent permitted by applicable law or otherwise the payment of unused PTO will be classified as taxable income and will be included in the Superintendent's regular salary payment between July
1 and July 15 of the next year of the Term of the Contract.

The value of an unused PTO day will be the equivalent of the Superintendent's daily rate of pay, using their salary in effect as of the last day of the applicable Contract year divided by
260 days.

Section 3. Holidays: The Superintendent shall be entitled to thirteen (13) paid holidays as designated by the School Board each Contract year as follows:

@ New Year's Day

e@ Martin Luther King Jr. Day

© President's Day

@ Memorial Day

e@ Juneteenth

@ Independence Day

@ Labor Day

@ Thanksgiving Day

@ Day After Thanksgiving Day
@ December 24 and December 25
© Two (2) Floating Holidays

Section 4.Workers' Compensation: Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Chapter 176, in the event that the Superintendent is injured on the job in the service of the School District they will be eligible to receive worker's compensation benefits. The School District will continue to provide insurance and other benefits, as outlined in Articles VI and VII this Contract in accordance with the law. While collecting workers' compensation insurance the Superintendent may use accrued
PTO for the purpose of receiving full salary from the School District, with the salary to be reduced by an amount equal to the workers' compensation insurance payments, and only that fraction of the days not covered by workers' compensation insurance will be deducted from accrued PTO.Section 5.Bereavement Leave: The Superintendent shall be granted up to five (5)
days of bereavement leave for a death within the Superintendent's immediate or close family.
The Superintendent's "immediate or close family" is defined as spouse, child (including stepchildren), parent, grandparent, or any person residing in the Superintendent's home at the time of death. The time utilized shall be in an amount to be determined after conferring with the School
Board Chair. Bereavement days utilized will not be deducted from the Superintendent's PTO.

Section 5. Emergency Leave: The Superintendent may be granted paid emergency leave at the discretion of the School Board.

Section 6. Jury Service: The Superintendent who serves on jury duty shall be granted the day or days necessary as stipulated by the court to discharge this responsibility without any salary deduction or loss of basic leave allowance. The compensation received for jury duty service shall be remitted to the School District.

Section 7. Disability: If the Superintendent is unable to perform their regular duties because of personal illness or disability and has exhausted all accumulated paid leave, the School Board shall provide additional paid leave at a salary equal to seventy percent (70%) of the
Superintendent's regular salary until the expiration of the waiting period for long-term disability insurance.

Section 8. Medical Leave:

(a) The Superintendent and District agree to incorporate by reference and be bound by the provisions of Minnesota Statutes 122A.40, Subd. 12 relating to suspension and leave of absence for health reasons

(b) Ifthe Superintendent is unable to perform regular duties because of personal illness or disability and has exhausted all available PTO or has become eligible for long term disability insurance and has not been suspended or placed on leave of absence pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes 122A.40, Subd. 12, the Superintendent shall, upon written request, be granted an unpaid medical leave of absence up to one (1) calendar year in duration. The
School Board may, in its discretion, extend such a leave upon written request. A request for medical leave of absence or extension thereof pursuant to this provision of the
Contract must be accompanied by a written statement from the Superintendent's physician outlining the condition of health and estimated time in which the
Superintendent is expected to be able to resume job duties. The Superintendent while on unpaid medical leave of absence is eligible to continue to participate in group insurance programs as permitted pursuant to the insurance policy provisions, but the Superintendent shall pay the entire premium for those insurance programs for which the Superintendent wishes to remain covered commencing with the beginning of the unpaid medical leave. If unpaid medical leave of at least one (1) full year is granted pursuant to this provision, the
Superintendent voluntarily waives any right to a leave of absence to which the
Superintendent might otherwise be entitled pursuant to Minnesota Statutes 122A.40,
Subd. 12.

Section 9. Insurance Application: In the event the Superintendent is on unpaid leave, they will be eligible to continue to participate in group insurance programs if permitted under the insurance policy provisions. The Superintendent shall pay the entire premium for such insurance commencing with the beginning of the unpaid leave and shall pay to the School District the monthly premium in advance. In the event the Superintendent is on paid leave from the School
District pursuant to this Contract, the School District will continue insurance contributions as provided in this Contract until paid leave is exhausted. Thereafter, the Superintendent must pay the entire premium for any insurance retained.

ARTICLE VI
INSURANCE

Section 1. Health and Hospitalization and Dental Insurance:

The District shall provide the Copay Health Insurance Plan for the Superintendent and
Superintendent's spouse and dependents at the expense of the District.

In the event this Contract will cause or does cause penalties, fees or fines to be assessed against the District due to providing health insurance pursuant to this section the Parties agree to negotiate a revision to the Contract that eliminates or reduces penalties, fees, or fines to be assessed against the District. The amount of any reduction in the District's contribution toward the Superintendent's healthcare benefits pursuant to this section as a result of addressing the
"highly compensated employee" component of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) will be placed into another District provided benefit(s) such as a retirement HRA, salary, or other District provided benefit as agreed to by the Parties.

Section 2. Dental Insurance: The District will pay the full amount of the monthly premium for the dental insurance coverage for the Superintendent and their spouse and dependents.

Section 3. Life Insurance: The School District shall provide to the Superintendent a group term life insurance plan providing coverage equal to three (3) times the Superintendent's salary, as stated in Article VIII, at the expense of the District. The death benefit of the group term life insurance plan will be payable to the Superintendent's named beneficiary(ies).

Section 4. Long-Term Disability Insurance: The School District shall provide, at its own expense, long-term disability insurance for the Superintendent under the School District's group long-term disability insurance plan.

Section 5. Claims Against the School District: The eligibility of the Superintendent and the
Superintendent's dependent(s) and beneficiary(ies) for insurance benefits shall be governed by the terms of the insurance policies purchased by the School District pursuant to this article. The
School District's only obligation is to purchase the insurance policies described in this article, and no claim shall be made against the School District as a result of denial of insurance benefits by an insurer if the School District has purchased the policies and paid the premiums described in this article.

Section 6. Liability Insurance: The School District shall provide to the Superintendent, at District expense, liability insurance naming the Superintendent as an insured, along with the District, in an amount not less than that which is required by law for the District.

Section 7: Insurance Upon Termination of Employment_ If the Superintendent's employment with the District terminates because the term of the Contract expires and no subsequent contract is entered into, the District will make the following payments:

a. Payment of the premiums at the actual dollar amount of whatever contribution was in effect

at the time of termination for the Superintendent and their spouse and dependents for

health and hospitalization and dental insurance coverage under the District's group health and dental insurance plans for twelve (12) months from the termination date or until the

date the Superintendent and their spouse and dependents become eligible for health and hospitalization and dental coverage from a subsequent employer, whichever is earlier.

b. If the Superintendent's employment with the District terminates before June 30, 2027 by reason of the Superintendent's disability or death, the District shall make the following payments: Payment of the full premiums for the Superintendent and their spouse and dependents for health and hospitalization, and dental insurance coverage under the

District's group health and dental plans for eighteen (18) months from the termination date or until the date the Superintendent and their spouse and dependents become eligible for health and hospitalization coverage from a subsequent employer, or from Medicare/Medicaid benefits, whichever is earlier. If the Superintendent dies, Superintendent's spouse and dependents shall be eligible to participate beyond the 18-month period defined above, at

the spouse's expense, in the School District's group health and dental insurance plans until the end of the month in which the Superintendent's spouse becomes eligible for
Medicare/Medicaid benefits or until the Superintendent's spouse becomes eligible for

health insurance from another source.

ARTICLE VII
OTHER BENEFITS

Section 1 Tax-Sheltered Annuities: The Superintendent is eligible to participate in a taxsheltered annuity plan through payroll deduction established pursuant to Section 403(b) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, Minnesota Statutes 123B.02, Subd. 15, School District policy, and as otherwise provided by law. To the extent the Superintendent participates in the plan, the
District will match the Superintendent's contribution in the plan up to a maximum of four percent
(4%) of current annual salary.

Section 2. Vehicle: The School District shall provide the Superintendent with a monthly allowance of six hundred and no/100 dollars $600.00 per month for business use of the
Superintendent's private vehicle pursuant to Minnesota Statutes 471.665, Subd. 3.

Section 3. Professional Growth Conferences and Meetings: The School District shall pay all legally valid expenses and fees for the Superintendent's attendance at professional conferences, conventions, seminars, workshops and meetings with other educational agencies and
Superintendent growth and development opportunities when such attendance is required, directed, or permitted by the School Board. The Superintendent shall periodically report to the
School Board relative to all meetings and conferences attended. The Superintendent shall file itemized expense statements to be processed and approved as provided by School Board policy and law.

Section 4 Business Expenses and Technology Support: Smartphone and Other Technology: The
School District shall provide the Superintendent with a monthly payment of one hundred and no/100 dollars ($100.00) for their personal smartphone and data plan. The payment provided to the Superintendent will be characterized for tax purposes as ordinary income. In addition, the
District shall provide the Superintendent the technology necessary to carry out the duties of the
Superintendent, which may include a tablet and laptop.

Section 5. Other Benefits: In addition to the benefits provided in this Contract, the District will provide the Superintendent with the other benefits provided to District-level administrators.

ARTICLE VII
SALARY

Section 1. Base Salary: The Superintendent shall be paid an annual salary of Two Hundred Fifty
Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($250,000.00) for the 2024-2025 Contract year; Two Hundred
Fifty Five and no/100 Dollars ($255,000.00) for the 2025-2026 Contract year; and Two Hundred
Sixty and no/100 Dollars ($260,000.00) for the 2026-2027 Contract year. During the Term of this Contract, the annual salary may be modified but shall not be reduced. The Superintendent's salary will be subject to normal withholding and deductions and paid in accordance with the
School District's normal payroll processes.

Section 2. Performance Incentive: In addition to base salary as provided in Article VIII, Section
1, the Superintendent shall be eligible for performance incentive salary at the end of each year of the Contract. Based on an evaluation and determination of the Superintendent's success in meeting annually predetermined goals and objectives of the District, as determined by the
School Board, the Superintendent may earn in each Contract year performance incentive salary up to ten percent (10%) of the base salary in Article VIII, Section 1. The exact percentage of performance incentive salary will be set annually by the Board, in consultation with the
Superintendent, and shall be payable on June 30, 2025, and each June 30 thereafter during the term of this Contract in the event the performance incentive is awarded.

ARTICLE Ix
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS

Section 1. Outside Activities: While the Superintendent shall devote full time and due diligence to the affairs and the activities of the School District, the Superintendent may also serve as a consultant to other school districts or educational agencies, lecture, engage in writing and speaking activities, and engage in other activities if, as solely determined by the School Board, such activities do not impede the Superintendent's ability to perform the duties of the superintendency. However, the Superintendent may not engage in other employment, consultant service, or other activity for which a salary, fee, or honorarium is paid without the prior approval of the School Board and such approval will not be unreasonably withheld.

Section 2. Indemnification and Provision of Counsel: In the event that an action is brought or a claim is made against the Superintendent arising out of or in connection with their employment and the Superintendent is acting within the scope of employment or official duties, the School
District shall defend and indemnify the Superintendent to the extent provided by law.

Indemnification, as provided in this section, shall not apply in the case of malfeasance in office or willful or wanton neglect of duty, and the obligation of the School District in this regard shall be subject to the limitations as provided in Minnesota Statutes Chapter 466. This indemnification and defense obligation extends to all costs and fees incurred by the
Superintendent in any internal investigation of a claim against the Superintendent that does not result or would not have resulted in substantial disciplinary action against the Superintendent
(defined as sufficient to create public data under the final disposition of a disciplinary action provisions of Minnesota Statutes 13.43, Subd. 2). Payment of legal fees includes when the
Superintendent incurs individual legal costs in serving as a witness in a claim against the School
District. Nothing herein affects the Superintendent's right to legal counsel of the
Superintendent's choice. Nothing herein affects the Parties' right to negotiate payment of legal fees as part of a separation agreement.

Section 3. Dues: The Superintendent is encouraged to belong to and participate in appropriate professional, educational, economic development, community, and civic organizations when such membership will serve the best interests of the School District. Accordingly, the School
District will pay the membership dues for such organizations as are required, directed, or permitted by the School Board, which may include, but not be limited to, MASA/MASE and
AASA, Midwest Suburban Superintendents' Association ("MSSA") and ASCD.

In the event the Superintendent wishes to join an organization other than those identified above, the Superintendent will submit a proposal to the School Board Chair for amounts to be paid to the other organizations with which the Superintendent wishes to belong/participate. The
School Board Chair will, in turn, receive the Superintendent's request(s) for discussion and approval, with approval not being unreasonably withheld. The Superintendent shall present appropriate statements for approval as provided by law.

Section 4. Severability. The provisions of this Contract shall be severable, and if any such provision or the application of any such provision under any circumstances is held invalid, it shall not affect any other provisions of this Contract or the application of any provision thereof.

Section 5. Governing Law. This Contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota without giving any effect to any choice or conflict provision of law that would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of
Minnesota.

Section 6. Entire Agreement. This Agreement shall be deemed to express, embody and supersede all previous understandings, agreements and commitments, whether written or oral, between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and to fully and finally set forth the entire agreement between the parties hereto. No modifications shall be binding unless stated in writing and signed by all parties hereto.

Section 7. Construction. The Parties and, if a Party so chooses, their respective counsel have had the opportunity to review and revise this Agreement and acknowledge that the normal rule of construction that any ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall not be employed in the interpretation of this Agreement.

<Signature Page to Follow>

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have subscribed

subscribed my signature this 2yday of my signature this=esé day of dune _, 2024 heme bio lp CU
Superintendent 5 ;

School Board Clerk