To: Board of Education
From: Chair Bowman & Vice Chair Holmes
Date: July 31, 2024
Re: Board Memo of Agreement
Over two days, July 19-20 2024, the Board of Education worked with Deborah
Keys Write from The Write Keys 2 Consulting, regarding Board Governance.
Work topics included discussion surrounding Board roles & views, agenda flow, communication protocols and school visits..
While specific Board goals were not determined, the discussions were detailed enough and produced the following four areas of agreement by all
Board Directors:
1. 200 Policies: The Board agreed to a sense of urgency to fully implement the 200 Policies, which in essence are the Board's governing rules.
Board Directors are tasked with reviewing the Rdale Governance
Policies, MSBA 200 Series Policies and Prior Lake-Savage Area Schools
200 Series Policies and be prepared for discussion on August 5, 2024.
Policies then will be reviewed by the Board Policy Committee (Bowman,
Brooks, Vento) to be brought forward for non-action and then non-action. Timeline TBD.
2. Communication:
○ Agenda & Working Document to be utilized by the agenda setting team and available for review to all Directors.
○ Agenda setting team to ensure any student topics/presentations are at the beginning of meetings.
○ Landing area on the Agenda to be created for governance topics.
1

○ Agreement that only the Board Chair may make requests of legal counsel based on the "will of the board."
○ E-mails to school_board@rdale - establish streamlined process of response from Chair and Executive Director of Communications with cc to full Board. Board Directors may still respond to emails sent directly to their email.
3. Board/Superintendent Relations:
○ Board to have further discussion on how decisions are made ex.
Superintendent focal points, "will of the Board"
○ Board goals need to be a priority discussion
○ Directors will not contact staff for information or requests.
Directors will not use resources or staff time for personal use.
○ If a Director plans to visit a school, notice will be given to the
Superintendent and the Superintendent will notify the Principal.
Directors will not enter classrooms unless invited by a staff member.
The above, along with next steps, will be discussed in greater detail during the
August 5, 2024 Board Business Meeting.
Thank you for your attention to this memo.
2