ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved October 7, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, September 16, 2024, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director
Holmes was absent. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
Chair Bowman asked for a motion to approve the Business Meeting agenda.

MOTION: Director Vento moved to accept the Business Meeting agenda, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Sharing the Success: 2024 Summer Programs

John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services

Tracy Moll, Special Education Supervisor - Elementary

Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities
Dr. Jen Ouellette-Schramm, Director of Adult Academic Programs

Missy Laatsch, Director of Adventure Club School Age Care

Angie Martinez Grande, Director of Community Enrichment and Engagement

Beth Tepper, Director of Achievement and Integration and Indian Education

Tony Patterson, Assistant Director of Achievement and Integration and Indian Education
Aunnie Kramber, Robbinsdale Equity Allies - Culture and Climate

A presentation recapping all of the programs provided districtwide during the summer of 2024, serving a total of 4959
students districtwide.

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique

potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates

career, articulated trades and college ready. She provided an update on activities, which included:

e Superintendent Staloch celebrated the success of the summer programs outlined earlier in the presentation

She noted that 10 days into the school year, routines are being established and learning is alive!

Superintendent Staloch visited a 10th grade math class at Cooper, and continued her scheduled school visits

This morning, she started her day with the Bridge 2 Learning Literacy Coaches at their training session

On Monday, September 9, Superintendent Staloch participated in the Robbinsdale Meet and Greet event

Tomorrow, she will visit Armstrong and Cooper during their National Voter Registration Day events, and

recognized Robbinsdale Academy Highview's participation in a virtual event hosted by the Minnesota Secretary of

State

e Finally, Superintendent Staloch read the resolution recognizing that September 2024 is School Board Recognition
Month - thanking our Directors for their service.

Operations

A. Action: Preliminary Levy Certification for Taxes Payable in 2025
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval and waived reading, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the Reading to Ensure Academic Development (READ) Act

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of the MOU for the READ Act, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.
C. Action: Resolution Accepting August 2024 Donations
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of $82,227.00 in donations, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
D. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Update
The committee's next meeting is scheduled for Thursday, October 3, 2024 at 4:30 p.m.
E. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee update.
The committee's next meeting is scheduled for Monday, September 23, 2024 at 5:00 p.m.
F. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Update
Chair Bowman has worked with the Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board to customize the
Minnesota School Boards Association template for the School Board Handbook to RAS. She will continue work on it with Clerk Evans-Becker, with a goal to bring a draft for review and feedback to the Work Session on
October 7, 2024.
G. Policy Committee Update
Marti Voight, Assistant Superintendent, noted there would be 14 additional policies/procedures with legislative changes and/or annual review coming for consent on October 7, 2024 at the Business Meeting.
Anne Becker from Becker Law will be working with the Policy Committee to draft new 200 series policies, with a goal to have all of them completed by the end of the 2024 calendar year.
H. Administrative Updates
Superintendent Staloch introduced two administrative updates:
e Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics, and Activities:
o Recognized the Full Service Community Schools Coordinator recognition for Cooper, Robbinsdale Middle
School and Sandburg Middle School o Noted that this is Adult Education/Family Literacy Recognition Week o Armstrong/Cooper football game (a.k.a. "the battle of the birds") was a great celebration between the two schools e Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources:
o Working to align to Strategic Plan Theme D: Staff Investment - to enhance the diversity of staff:
a September of 2023: 196 new staff included 59 new staff of color - resulting in 30.1% staff of color ma September of 2024: 184 new staff included 69 new staff of color - resulting in 37.5% staff of color a Total increase of 7.7% staff of color between the two years a Total staff in district now at 1910 people, 368 of which are staff of color - which is 19.2% of all staff, representing a 1.8% increase overall

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and

community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Evans-Becker facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in

the Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Six individuals submitted seven requests and spoke in regard to:

e Plymouth Middle School (PMS) bus - students continue tossing verbal abuses to community members who are out walking

e Contracts appearing under Financial Matters are already in use or just about to start - timeline needs to improve

e School Management Services contract - why no "expected" end date? Requested costs from them since

December 2023

Improvement in district finances reporting, now including actual expenditures - however, there is misinformation

when actuals are shown against full year budget - want year to date to be shown

Board is not fulfilling financial duties, and is dysfunctional

Feels discriminated in hiring due to veteran's preference - is here to fight

Closed meeting clarification

PMS late bus to school resulting rushed breakfast for students, and missing a portion of first period daily

e Technology levy renewal - taking money from taxpayers/Rdale parents when the measurable metrics continue to decline

e Parent taking students out of district due to safety, learning skills - response to a coyote was faster than disruptions

e Music program cuts, effects on schools, budget equity between schools

Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks seconded the motion.

Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at 9:07 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board 5

5 ip 2 5) ; ;
Signed: thee Zt Lathe -_ nate ZZ, OAS

Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, ISD 281