SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICER AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN THE
INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 281 AND THE CITY OF ROBBINSDALE
THIS SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICER AGREEMENT (" ") is made by and between
Agreement the INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 281, a Minnesota school district, ("School District")
and the CITY OF ROBBINSDALE a Minnesota municipal corporation (" "). The District and
City
City may be identified individually as a "Party" or collectively as the "Parties."
Recitals
A. Independent School District 281 and the City desire the creation of a high-quality learning environment for students, staff and families. As such, we are entering into this agreement to engage the services of a school resource officer ("SRO") from the City's police department. While this Agreement refers to a single SRO, more than one SRO may be provided and the terms of this
Agreement shall apply to each such SRO.
B. The Safe Schools Levy provides monetary funds to school districts to hire school resource officers to help address safety related issues within schools.
C. To that end, the School District desires to obtain the services of, and the City agrees to provide,
SRO(s) in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Agreement
In consideration of the terms and conditions contained herein, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
1. SRO SERVICES. The City agrees to provide the School District a SRO to provide services at the school identified herein, and the School District agrees to provide funding for the
SRO, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
The Term of this Agreement shall be for a ten month period from September 3,
2. TERM.
2024 to June 4, 2025. twelve (12) month period from July 1, 2024 to June 30, 2025 .
3. TERMINATION. Either Party may terminate this Agreement upon a sixty (60) days written notice to the other of such termination. In the event of a termination, any payments due to the City shall be prorated based on the period of SRO services provided.
The School District will levy the maximum amount permitted by law to the
4. LEVY.
property tax payers in the School District to help fund the SRO position.
The School District will meet with the Chief Law Enforcement
5. PROGRAM FUNDING.
Officer, or designee, of the City to discuss the allocation of available funds to support the SRO
services. The City will invoice the School District for the first half of the payment on January 1
and for the second half of the payment on June 30. The funding the School District shall provide to the City for the 2024-2025 2023-24 school year will be $56,627.00 per full time equivalent
Page of
1 7

(" ") SRO provided by the City (" "). Pursuant to paragraph 7, the City will
FTE FTE Funding document all days the SRO is not on site and discount the first or second half payment at a rate of 339.08 per day. Notwithstanding the termination provision contained herein, the City may terminate this Agreement upon ten (10) days written notice of termination to the School District if the City determines the School District does not have sufficient funds to pay the FTE Funding.
6. SCHOOLS SERVED. Robbinsdale Middle School, 3730 Toledo Avenue N., Robbinsdale,
MN 55422("School") will receive SRO services under this Agreement.
7. NUMBER OF SROs. The City will assign one (1) FTE police officer to serve as the SRO
at the School during the regular school year. The City will work collaboratively with the school district to determine which of its police officers to assign to serve as the SRO under this
Agreement. The number of police officers serving in the SRO position at the School may be modified at any time upon the written agreement of the City and the School District. The provision of all such SRO(s)s shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
The School District agrees to pay the City the FTE Funding amount for each FTE SRO provided at the School. There will be no SRO(s) when the school district is in e- learning at any of the schools. No payments will be made to the cities when SRO(s) are not on site.
8. RELATIONSHIP OF THE PARTIES. The SRO(s) assigned to the School District is an employee of the City and will not be considered an employee of the School District. The SRO)
will be subject to the control, supervision, policies, procedures, and general orders of the City and its Police Department as well as the policies and procedures of Independent School District
281. At all times, the SRO(s) will be considered law enforcement for the purposes where the law requires school districts to make referrals to law enforcement. It is agreed that nothing contained in this Agreement is intended or should be construed in any manner as creating or establishing a partnership or joint venture between the Parties. Neither party agrees to accept responsibility for the acts of the other Party or of the other Party's officers, personnel, employees, agents, contractors, or servants. Any claims arising out of the employment or alleged employment, including without limitation claims of discrimination, by or against a Party's officers, personnel, employees, agents, contractors, or servants will in no way be the responsibility of the other Party.
Neither Party will have any authority to bind the other by or with any contract or agreement, nor to impose any liability upon the other. All acts and contracts of each Party will be in its own name and not in the name of the other, unless otherwise provided herein.
The City will be responsible for all payments regarding
9. COMPENSATION TO SRO.
compensation, benefits, pension plans and withholdings for its officer(s) serving as the SRO(s) at the School. The Parties will, except as provided herein, act in their individual capacities and not as agents, employees, partners, joint ventures or associates of the other. Neither of the Parties, nor its personnel, employees, agents, contractors, or servants, shall be entitled to any benefits of the other. The Parties will not provide any insurance coverage to the other or their employees including, but not limited to, workers' compensation insurance. Each Party will pay all wages, salaries and other amounts due its employees and will be responsible for all reports, obligations, and payments pertaining to social security taxation, income tax withholding, workers'
compensation, unemployment compensation, group insurance coverage, collective bargaining agreements or any other such similar matters.
Page of
2 7

10. DUTIES AND EVALUATION OF THE OFFICER. The law enforcement services provided to the School District by the SRO(s) will be at the sole discretion of the City. Officer standards of performance, conduct and discipline of the officer, performance reviews and other internal matters related to the SRO(s) services shall be under the authority of the City. Time spent by the SRO(s) in excess of eight (8) hours in a day in the performance of SRO duties at the
School will be on a specific, case-by-case basis requiring the advance approval of the City and the School District. The City retains the authority to recall the SRO(s) if the person is needed to respond to an emergency occurring off of School grounds.
11. DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES. The SRO(s) will provide the followings
Duties:
services at the School:
(a) A school resource officer's contractual duties with a school district or charter school shall include:
(1) fostering a positive school climate through relationship building and open communication;
(2) protecting students, staff, and visitors to the school grounds from criminal activity;
(3) serving as a liaison from law enforcement to school officials;
(4) providing advice on safety drills;
(5) identifying vulnerabilities in school facilities and safety protocols;
(6) educating and advising students and staff on law enforcement topics; and
(7) enforcement of criminal laws.
(b) A school district or charter school may contract with a school resource officer's employer for the officer to perform additional duties to those described in paragraph (a).
(c) A school resource officer must use force or the authority of their office solely to not enforce school rules or policies or participate in the enforcement of discipline for violations of school rules.
(d) Nothing in this subdivision limits any other duty or responsibility imposed on peace officers; limits the expectation that peace officers will exercise professional judgment and discretion to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the public when carrying out their duties; or creates a duty for school resource officers to protect students, staff, or others on school grounds that is different from the duty to protect the public as a whole.
A. Promote the safety and welfare of students.
B. Serve as a resource for teachers, parents and students regarding individual problems or questions.
C. Work with the administrators and staff of the School by building relationships with students in the prevention of delinquency.
Page of
3 7

D. The SRO will encourage positive attitudes and supportive behaviors toward school district policies and procedures as well as the law, and demonstrate and model the responsible exercise of authority.
E. Actively support school district policy and procedures.
F. Maintain awareness of all criminal or delinquency investigations or criminal interrogations being done at the School and, when necessary, provide information to school administration and District leadership. All questioning of the students will be in adherence with
District policies and administrative procedures such as AP519.
G. Perform investigations of criminal incidents occurring at the School and make proper referrals to law enforcement as serious matters may require.
H. Provide input to School administration on matters relating to School building security and occupant safety.
I. Participate in community and School efforts to promote positive youth development.
J. E.To the extent possible and consistent with other responsibilities, the SRO will wear appropriate civilian attire while working at the School.
K. F. Speak to and provide curriculum support for classrooms on age appropriate subjects to present to School students as requested by School administration.
L. Perform other duties and assume other responsibilities as may be agreed to between the
City's Chief Law Enforcement Officer and District administration.
M. G.It is required of Independent School District 281 to have any School Resource Officer participate in school diversion efforts, which are in alignment with our District Discipline Policy.
N. For any school code violations identified or witnessed, the SRO(s) will defer the student to the principal's office as disciplining students for code of conduct violations is a School District
Responsibility.
12. STUDENT DISCIPLINE. The SRO(s) will not recommend, determine or provide input on student discipline by the School. Unless requested by School administration or other personnel, the SRO is not responsible for responding to any situation that other school personnel can adequately handle. The Parties understand and agree incidents such as disorderly conduct, bullying, cyberbullying, disruption of school assembly or activities, profanity, dress code, and fighting that does not involve physical injury or a weapon, shall be considered School discipline issues to be handled by other School officials, unless the presence of the SRO(s) are necessary to
Page of
4 7

protect the physical safety of students, school personnel, or public. Nothing in this Agreement prevents or limits the authority of the SRO(s) to exercise his or her duties as a law enforcement officer regardless of whether the exercise of those duties occurs on or off School grounds.
13. ACCESS TO EDUCATIONAL DATA. The Parties are subject to the Minnesota
Government Data Practices Act, Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 13, and the School District is subject to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, 20 U.S.C. § 1232g ("FERPA"). The
SRO position is not a designated "school official" with regard to the FERPA while under contract and providing SRO services to the School District. The City agrees to comply with the requirements of FERPA to the extent its police officer serving as the SRO obtains data from the
School District subject to FERPA.
14. PUBLIC DATA. School District officials will allow the SRO(s) to inspect and copy any public records maintained by the School District to the extent allowed by law.
If information in a student's record is needed in
15. PRIVATE EDUCATIONAL DATA.
an emergency to protect the health or safety of the student or other individuals, School District officials will disclose to the SRO(s) the information needed to respond to the emergency situation based upon the seriousness of the threat to someone's health or safety, the need of the information in order to meet the emergency situation, and the extent to which time is of the essence. If student record information is needed by an SRO, but no emergency situation exists, the information may be released only as allowed by law.
The SRO(s) will respond to emergency calls,
16. ADDITIONAL OFFICER DUTIES.
attend police training, and any other special duties as assigned by the City while fulfilling the
SRO requirements under this Agreement.
17. TRAINING. The School District agrees to provide the following training at its own cost.
. The School District will provide training to School personnel regarding the
Role of the SRO(s)
appropriate role of the SRO(s) and when personnel may request help from the SRO(s). The training will also emphasize that personnel are not to refer students to law enforcement because of conduct in the classroom unless the presence of the SRO(s) is necessary to protect the physical safety of students, school personnel, or public.
18. OFFICER SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT. The School shall not be required to provide the SRO(s) any clothing, uniforms, vehicles, or other equipment necessary to perform the required duties under this Agreement.
Each Party shall be responsible for its own acts and omissions and
19. INDEMNIFICATION.
the results thereof to the greatest extent authorized by law. Neither Party agrees to accept the liability of the other. Each Party agrees to defend, indemnify and hold the other harmless from any and all liability, claims, causes of action, judgments, damages, losses, costs, or expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees, directly resulting from the indemnifying Party's own
Page of
5 7

negligent actions or inactions, or the negligent actions or inactions of the indemnifying Party's employees and officers. The Party seeking to be indemnified and defended shall provide timely notice to the others when the claim is brought. The Party undertaking the defense shall retain all rights and defenses available to the indemnified Party and no immunities or limitations on liability are hereby waived that are otherwise available to either Party.
20. NONDISCRIMINATION. Both Parties agree they will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment to be employed in the performance of this Agreement with respect to hire, tenure, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment because of the race, color, religion, sex, disability, or national origin or similarly protected statues of the employee or applicant. Neither Party will, in the performance of this Agreement, discriminate or permit discrimination in violation of federal or state laws or local ordinances.
Any notice, demand, request or other communication that may or will be given or
21. NOTICE.
served by the Parties, will be deemed to have been given or served on the date the same is deposited in the United States mail, registered or certified postage prepaid and addressed as follows:
If to the City: If to the School District:
Patrick Foley Bo Powell
Police Chief Director of Security
Plymouth Police Department 4148 Winnetka Avenue North
4101 Hubbard Avenue N. New Hope, MN 55427
Robbinsdale, MN 55422
The Parties to this Agreement will comply with all applicable federal,
22. APPLICABLE LAW.
state, and local laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances in the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement. Minnesota law will govern the terms and the performance under this Agreement.
This Agreement, including the recitals which
23. ENTIRE AGREEMENT; AMENDMENTS.
are incorporated herein, constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties and no other agreement prior to this Agreement or contemporaneous to this Agreement will be effective except as expressly set forth or incorporated in this Agreement. Any purported amendment to this
Agreement will not be effective unless it is set forth in writing and executed by both Parties.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective duly authorized officers effective as of the date indicated above.
CITY OF ROBBINSDALE INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 281
Page of
6 7

By By
Mayor Chief Financial Officer
By
City Manager
Page of
7 7