ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved September 4, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, August 19, 2024, beginning at 7:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.ora/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent.
There was a quorum, and the meeting was called io order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
Chair Bowman asked for a motion to approve the Business Meeting agenda.

MOTION: Director Brooks moved to remove Operations item 4.A. Board of Education Professional Development (PD)
Agreements from the Retreat from the agenda, and add it to tonight's Work Session for discussion. Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett and
Brooks. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento.

Said motion failed.

Director Long called the question, requesting a vote to close the discussion on the proposed amendment to the agenda. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bassett and Brooks. Said motion was declared duly passed.

MOTION: Director Vento moved to accept the Business Meeting agenda with no changes, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Director Brooks abstained from voting. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Superintendent's Report
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. She provided an update on activities, which included:
e Superintendent Staloch met individually with elementary principals e She welcomed the custodial/maintenance and curriculum and instructions team back e Facilitated the System Leader Advance meeting with district leadership including Cabinet, principals, assistant principals, and directors
°o Aligning our work to the strategic plan e Facilitating a meeting tomorrow with all ESC staff o Aligning our work to the strategic plan o - Introducing new staff o Recognizing years of service milestones e Enrollment o Enrollment Center is all hands on deck as we near the start of the school year - team is meeting every couple of days o As of today, enrollment is at 10,401 - which is up from the projected enrollment of 10,146
e Capital Projects Levy Renewal
© District site teams for each building/program will be training tomorrow in preparation for putting the word out to our families and the community

Operations
A. Action: Board of Education Professional development (PD) Agreements from Retreat
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval of the agreements, and Director Long seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker,

Holmes, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Brooks. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Delegation of Deputy Treasurer
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of Kristen Hoheisel, RAS Chief Financial Officer, as Deputy Treasurer, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Action: Resolution Accepting July 2024 Donations
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of $36,163.62 in donations, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Update
The committee met Thursday, August 15 with Superintendent Staloch (Bo Powell, Director of Security arrived during the meeting). Discussion occurred around: Sandy Hook Promise, wrap around services, vape detectors,
Security Education Assistants (EAs) regarding de escalation training, October Safety and Security meeting topic.

E. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee update.
The committee is working to get a meeting set in September.

F, Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Update
Chair Bowman provided copies of the MSBA School Board Handbook template to the Directors for review and notation. It was requested that the review and notations be completed by Tuesday, September 3.

G. Policy Committee Update
A list of all Policy Committee meeting dates was attached in tonight's agenda. The meeting scheduled for
Wednesday, August 7, 2024 did not have a quorum - resulting in cancellation. Their next meeting is scheduled for
Tuesday, August 27, 2024 at 6:00 p.m. at ESC.

H. Administrative Updates - Human Resources from Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Ms. O'Hern noted that as of today the district has 1,843 staff = 97% fully-staffed!

Consent Agenda
Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Evans-Becler moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Evans-Becker, and Vento.
And the following voted against the same: Directors Bassett, Brooks, Holmes, and Long. Said motion failed.

Separate votes were taken for each of the Consent Agenda sections as follows:

e Administrative Items 5.A.1. Monthly PD Report and 5.A.2. Draft Minutes
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval, and Chair Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

e Personnel Matters Items 5.B.1. Licensed Staff Personnel Report and 5.B.2. Non-Licensed Staff Personnel Report
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

e Financial Matters Items 5.C.1. Business Office Monthly Contract Report, 5.C.2. Bi-Monthly Disbursement Report, and 5.C.3. July 2024 Disbursements
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, and Vento.
And the following voted against the same: Directors Holmes and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Unfinished Business - School Board Investigation Report Update

A Special Business Meeting has been set for Monday, August 26, 2024 at 6:00 p.m. for attorney James Martin from
Martin Law PLLC, and investigator Isaac Kaufman from Red Cedar Consulting LLC to review the report from the investigation of allegations between Board Directors, and provide possible next steps. Board Directors will receive the report prior to this meeting for review. Mr. Martin and Mr. Kaufman will take questions at the conclusion of their presentation.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and

community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Bassett facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the

Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Six individuals submitted requests and spoke in regard to:

e Donation request and acknowledgement process - should be consistent across district

e District 287 gifted education programs her student experienced, and the equity of information and communication of these programs in our district and District 287 being disseminated to eligible students in the future

e Modern Classroom Project large expenditure and contract - concerning with budget cuts happening, and T-Mobile hot spot expenses

e District leadership, dysfunctionality of the Board - need to stop traumatizing one another, request that they reflect, regroup, and focus

e New beginnings at the start of a new year

e Capital Projects Levy Renewal - why are technology and building safety and security together and not separate, and what will be district's means of showing accountability and transparency in the use of these funds? T-Mobile billing questions - hot spots being paid for but not being utilized. Questions not answered previously regarding graduation expenses at Minneapolis Convention Center versus at the high schools.

e Capital Projects Levy Renewal questions on this and safety

Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
8:31 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the oe Lee, and School Board
Signed: CL Lean Lather / oat Lepol yy, ONY

Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, ISD 281