Questions raised at the 02/20/2024 Working Session of the Robbinsdale School Board:
1.) There are concerns about congestion that is created in the eastern lot. What can be done? Can anything change if the district is fine with students exiting on the driver's-side of vehicles?
The layout can be changed to reflect pickup/dropoff operations on the driver's-side of vehicles if the district desires. The layout was formulated to have passenger side pickup to reflect the most common school operations for improved safety by reducing need for students to cross the vehicle to enter the passenger side of vehicles.
Relative to congestion, specific operational study of average delay, etc where the entering vehicles (from the fire lane road) cross the exiting vehicles (post-pickup/dropoff) has not been quantified. However, two aspects that may be helpful:
1. The entering vehicles have a proposed stop sign leaving the cul-de-sac, whereas the exiting vehicles do not. Departing vehicles should not need to yield to entering vehicles with the intent to keep traffic moving as efficiently as possible as it leaves the pickup area, which is key to minimizing congestion.
2. Congestion is to some degree inherent to the issues at hand and is being better managed by the proposed layout. A benefit of the proposed layout is that it locates the congestion in better locations; cars will be congested/stacked in the parking lot area and fire lane/rear th roadway rather than into and along 36 Ave.
2.) How much would it cost to add fencing along the entire back length of the Plymouth
Middle School property to separate the residential properties from the school property?
Exploring the installation of a fence to separate the Middle School from the adjacent residential properties involves a length of fence that is estimated to be 1,732 linear feet in length. This would only be for a fence that would divide the two uses from 34th Avenue to 36th Avenue, jogging to accommodate the bend in Pilgrim Lane (the street that the residential properties are located on.)
Based on current estimates, the costs of installing a fence along the properties were calculated as follows:
● Chain Link Fence: $96,992
● Aluminum Fence: $129,900
Aside from the expense of installation, here are some additional factors for consideration:
● Adding a fence would require additional labor costs for yard maintenance for both the school district and for the residential properties (who contract out the work), as the yard would no longer be able to be fully moved along those axis with large mowers, but would need weed wacking on both sides of the fence for the full extent of the 1,732 linear feet.
● Adding to the cost, the location of the fence in portions of this area can at times be in swamp-like areas in the summer, which would make weed wacking more difficult, still.
● A wooden privacy fence was not explored, as the fence would unduly shade the drive aisle that is along the perimeter of the school, preventing snow and ice from melting, and creating an unsafe condition that would require additional time and expense to maintain in the winter.

● The site administration indicated that none of the residents from those adjacent properties have voiced any concerns about the current and proposed use of that drive aisle.
● The teachers and building administration have concerns about having the flexible outdoor spaces they currently use along the drive aisle compromised by the addition of a fence, making them unable to function as they currently are used during the school year.
● There are additional concerns about the erection of a barrier between the school and adjacent residential properties creating additional hardship to students who may live in those adjacent dwellings, as it would prolong their route to school.
3.) Was there staff input into this proposed layout?
Yes. Building staff attended a city-hosted open house at the school where over 200 people met with city officials and engineers to discuss the plan.
District F.O.T. staff also followed up with building administration to see if any additional feedback or concerns had been raised.
4.) Ask the Fire Marshal if it is allowable to have vehicles (with drivers IN them) operating in fire lanes?
The Fire Code does not exclusively limit use of fire lanes to fire apparatuses alone. While it provides leeway that allows for deviations from typical road construction requirements in that the fire lane does not HAVE to be designed for additional vehicular traffic, the only relevant restriction to use of the Fire Lane in this application is that cars are not permitted to park in the fire lane. Ie: Drivers must remain in their vehicle at all times when moving through the drive aisle. At no time are drivers to park and exit their vehicle (this is considered parking.)
5.) Is the construction of the fire lane such that it can accommodate added parent pick-up and drop-off traffic? Is it durable enough? What is the expected lifespan of this lane, given this use? What is the cost of resurfacing it in the future?
A Civil Engineer has provided a professional assessment of the drive aisle around Plymouth
Middle School. His determination was that the perimeter drive at Plymouth Middle School is in fair/good condition and should be able to withstand automobile traffic; however, they wouldn't recommend routing heavier traffic (e.g. school buses, garbage truck, etc.) onto this drive.
The paved drive is approximately 15+ years old, so it will likely require an overlay within the next 5 years at an approximate cost of $35,000 (in 2024 dollars). This is an anticipated pavement project, and routing the anticipated quantity of cars on the drive aisle that already serves that purpose is not enough to compromise that anticipated maintenance timing.
The conclusion is that the anticipated additional vehicular traffic will not adversely impact the lifespan or condition of the pavement.
6.) Can the city provide more information on the extent of their engagement efforts?
The City conducted online public engagement to gain an understanding of existing issues in spring 2023. Travelers through the corridor likely recall seeing signage and sidewalk decals

with QR codes to the online application where public input was collected. 761 post cards were also mailed to nearby properties, posts were made on Facebook and NextDoor, and 'pop up'
th meetings were held at multi-family housing properties near 36 Ave and along the regional trail to engage those passers by that don't typically take the time to go to a website or show up to formal meetings. This engagement created 1,671 unique user page views with 200 comments received regarding the existing conditions and issues in May and June 2023, as summarized here:
https://www.plymouthmn.gov/home/showpublisheddocument/25769/638258752945130000.
The project team developed the improvements with this feedback in mind.
th
A public engagement meeting was held on November 8 at the Plymouth Middle school, th focused on the 36 Ave corridor improvements. A video was also placed online
(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S4HXxefrXsk&feature=youtu.be) to present to the public what is proposed for the project. There were approximately 75 individuals in attendance at the meeting and 48 comments were received.
nd
A 2 public engagement meeting is tentatively planned for Fall 2024 (when school is back in session) to again present the proposed improvements, refined based on input received during the preliminary design November 2023 open house. We intend to present and receive feedback from the public regarding any Plymouth Middle School site improvements as part of that engagement effort.
7.) Have there been similar projects in the district? How do these assessment costs compare?
We do not have a record of any recent projects that are similar in scope and scale to the one proposed.

8.) Has the city considered round-abouts?
Roundabouts have been considered along the corridor, more specifically:
a.) At the new Kilmer / Lancaster intersection, a roundabout was considered; however it is not necessary for capacity there and would be inconsistent with the nearby traffic signals.
Simply put, mixing roundabouts with nearby traffic signals can cause operational issues associated with waves ('platooning') of vehicles arriving at one time and any extensive queues caused by the signals can gridlock a roundabout in all directions. Most commonly, corridors have either roundabouts or signals (not a mix) when intersections are in relatively close proximity. The 169 ramps are in relatively close proximity to the Kilmer/Lancaster intersection.
b.) At the Pilgrim Ln intersection, a roundabout was considered however it was not required to achieve acceptable capacity / delay at the intersection. Additional private property impacts /
acquisition on residential property to the north would also be necessary to retrofit a roundabout to this location. The project is seeking to make improvements at this location however, by relocating the pedestrian crossing to a place where the crossing can be th enhanced and pedestrians can cross just one lane of 36 Ave traffic at a time with use of the median. Reducing pedestrian use of the Pilgrim intersection will also help vehicle delay during peak usage times.
9.) Will moving forward with this expense out of the capital budget result in more cuts to staff or to student services as a result?
This would not result in additional reductions to staff.
10.) Can we get a breakdown and clarification of the costs of this project?
(see diagram on next page)

11). The Project started at 500,000 why 755,00 at this time?
(I think this can be addressed in Question #10 in the diagram above)
12). What was the feedback from the community sessions at PMS?
(That is Question #6 already)
13). How will the administration/staff be directing traffic in the back
We engaged with the building administration, who indicated that they have had no negative comments or complaints about the current (and continuing) drive aisle behind the school.
The bulk of the need for traffic direction takes place at the front of the school (at the access/curb-cut locations, the main front parking lot (currently), and at the final drop off zone area to the east, adjacent to 36th Avenue. The building administration has stated that there has not been a need for traffic direction along the drive aisle (out back). This is likely due to the width of the drive aisle in creating a one-way, sigle-lane condition.
The school does fully staff the exterior (including the area adjacent to the drive aisle) at times during the day when students are outside on lunch break, but this is for larger exterior supervision purposes and not due to the presence of the drive aisle itself, specifically.
The traffic direction used to be assisted by SRO's to reduce dangerous behavior of parents/drivers dropping off on 36th Avenue, but which is currently not an option, as there are not any SRO's at Plymouth Middle School, currently.