Minutes of Special Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved XXXX

A Special Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, May 28, 2024, beginning at 7:04 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 7:04 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, Re Nae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bowman moved to accept the Special Business Meeting agenda, and Director Vento seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

First Superintendent Candidate Interview

The Board interviewed Dr. Teri Staloch, with the group of randomly-selected stakeholders providing input electronically. After the interview, the Board deliberated and determined they had a few more clarifying questions to ask. Dr. Staloch came back in to address those questions, after which the Board deliberated again.

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved that the Board hire Dr. Teri Staloch to be the new RAS superintendent, contingent on mutually-agreeable contract, clear background check and results of the Board reference checks,
Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed unanimously.

A draft of the contract from legal will be ready for Board review later this week, in preparation for discussion at the
Monday, June 4, 2024 Work Session.

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved to adjourn the Special Business meeting, and Chair Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
10:57 p.m..

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed:_ ie Zene-Kichee vee Z SBD

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281