From: Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee
Date: 10.7.2024
Re: Status Update
Past Committee Meeting Dates: August 29, 2023, October 4, 2023, December 6, 2023,
December 20, 2023, January 17, 2024, School Board Work Session at the request of
Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee January 23, 2024, School Board at the request of
Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee January 30, 2024, February 28, 2024, March 27,
2024, April 29, 2024, July 24, 2024, August 15, 2024, October 3, 2024
Upcoming Committee Meeting Dates: November 7, 2024, 4:30 at ESC
Review of Committee's purpose:
To provide recommendations to the full Board of Education regarding safety and security initiatives, how to address and communicate about incidents and other related priorities.
Meeting Overviews:
October 3, 2024 - Attendees: Directors Long and Holmes, Assistant Superintendent
Voight, Executive Director John Gronke, Director Bo Powell, Superintendent Staloch and one community member. Meeting began at 4:30*, adjourned at 5:40.
1. Discussion of Safety presentation and contents for October 21, 2024 Business
Meeting.
● Based on Committee and Board work over the last year, Long and Holmes suggested topics to be included: emergency response teams, wrap around services, training details for Security EA's, reunification processes, prevention strategies and student involvement areas.
2. Directors Long and Holmes asked for an update regarding proposed steps from
Administration in the February 28, 2024 meeting (vape detectors, security cameras, monitoring screens, etc.)
3. Superintendent Staloch initiates discussion surrounding the safety & security ad hoc committee and its role.
1

4. Next meeting date set as well as discussion of agenda items which include the
Student Handbook highlighting changes in regard to the work over the past year, next steps after October presentation and any additional unfinished business.
● ACTION: The Ad Hoc Committee asks the full Board to email any specific ideas/questions surrounding the Student Handbook to Director Holmes and
Superintendent Staloch for initial discussion. Item can be added to an upcoming work session based on the will of the Board.
*The meeting began without Superintendent Staloch. She joined after another meeting concluded.
July 24, 2024 - Attendees: Directors Bowman, Long & Holmes. Meeting began at 4:25, adjourned at 5:30.
1. Review of the May 6th Board update including outstanding items/actions.
● Color coded document provided by Assistant Superintendent Voight via email July 26, 2024. Committee to review before the next meeting.
2. Timing of SRO contracts. The committee was provided with the SRO contract update received in agenda setting earlier that day: Dr. Staloch stated SRO contracts would be prepared and placed in the consent agenda for the August 5, 2024
Business meeting.
3. Agenda set for next meeting. Committee to send agenda to Dr. Staloch and ask for a meeting within the next two weeks.
April 29, 2024 - Attendees: Directors Bowman, Long & Holmes, Interim
Superintendent Voight, Director of Safety & Security Bo Powell.
1. Discussion of any outstanding items/actions:
● Directors to review the last color coded memo provided by Interim
Superintendent Voight and Director Powell to verify actions and documents
● Scheduled closed session for May 22, 2024 regarding Board safety drills/protocols
● Director Powell provided a brief overview of a new safety & security initiative he implemented approximately a month ago. Every Monday a zoom call is scheduled for 281 High School Administrators, Middle School Administrators, the Director of Safety & Security, available police chiefs or designated representatives along with SRO's. The purpose of the meeting is to have
2

consistent communications and feedback around violence prevention.
Discussions may include any events that have occurred outside of school hours that may flow back into schools, concerns about the week ahead and/or events planned. This initiative has been well received by all involved.
● Director Powell requests a brainstorm session on the topic of parent involvement/engagement regarding safety & security topics. Initial comments were made and will be added to the Ad Hoc Committee's next agenda. The
Ad Hoc Committee will prepare an outline for full board discussion at a future work session.
ACTION: The Ad Hoc Committee asks the full Board to email any specific ideas/questions surrounding this topic to Directors Bowman, Long and Holmes.
2. Vape Detector Cost Overview:
● Interim Superintendent Voight and Director Powell provided a document with count and cost estimates for vape detectors in AHS and CHS
● Cost for an individual device is $1,400 - $1,7000. For this estimate, $1,400 was used.
● Estimated costs for approximately 278 bathroom stalls within two high schools is $945,200
● Estimate does not include the wiring fees
● Discussion was had around the value of spending a large amount of money on one initiative versus other priorities
ACTION: Ad Hoc Committee asked for additional information on Administration recommended priorities ex. door alarms, security EA's/personnel requests, etc.
ACTION: The Ad Hoc Committee asks the full Board to email any specific ideas/questions surrounding this topic to Directors Bowman, Long and Holmes.
3. Supervisor Resource Guide and MTSS Handbook discussions were postponed.
March 27, 2024 - Attendees: Directors Bowman, Long & Holmes, Interim
Superintendent Voight, Director of Safety & Security Bo Powell, Police Chiefs Fadden
(Plymouth), Foley (Robbinsdale), Hoyt (New Hope) and Revering (Crystal).
The first item on the agenda was time for the Police Chiefs and 281 Leadership to provide an update to the Ad Hoc Committee.
1. The Police Chiefs were first on the Agenda to provide updates/information regarding the School Resource Officer bill that was signed by Governor Walz on
March 14, 2024.
3

The conversation included discussion surrounding the language used in the bill, mandatory training for school resource officers (SRO's) as well as concerns surrounding assigned responsibilities and authority in schools.
● A handout was provided which outlined details of the bill's language. The handout can be found here PATROL Handout along with a summary memo from the Ad Hoc Committee which can be found here SRO Update April 2,
2024. Both documents were provided to the full BOE in the packet materials prior to the April 2, 2024 business meeting and work session.
● District Administration, in agreement with the Police Chiefs, recommended the Board reinstate SRO's into Cooper High School, Armstrong High School and Plymouth Middle School as soon as possible. The Ad Hoc Committee elected to bring the information to the work session on April 2, 2024 for full board discussion.
2. After the Police Chiefs left the Committee discussed costs of the SRO contracts for the remainder of the 2023/24 school year (approximately 40 days). These details can also be found here SRO Update April 2, 2024.
3. Update was given on the pilot vape detectors that were approved on February 5th for approximately $15,000. After conversions with a vendor, Administration has determined it will be more cost effective to install detectors in all bathrooms which will far exceed the initial estimated pilot program cost.
4. Agenda items 3 and 4, the Supervisor Resource Guide and MTSS Handbook, were not discussed and will be moved to the next meeting.
February 28, 2024 - Attendees: Directors Bowman, Long & Holmes, Director of Safety
& Security Bo Powell
1. Director Powell updates:
a. Difficulty hiring additional safety & security EA's
ACTION: ad hoc ask IS Voight for marketing piece, Director Powell to consider/recommend 'hiring perks' for recruiting b. Vape detection system:
i. Halo is the vendor chosen for Vape detectors and initial meetings under way. Detectors installed in AHS and CHS with placement in four restrooms to start (pilot the devices before further commitment).
ii. Installation eta is over spring break
4

c. Purchase of security cameras:
i. Walk throughs occurring this week at AHS and CHS to finalize a list of locations and purchase needs.. Director Powell is working with facilities and Principals.
d. Sandy Hook Promise Programs re-launch:
i. 88-89% participation rate of introduction video with no technical difficulties.
ii. CHS and PMS safety ambassadors highly active, meeting 1x per week, as safety ambassadors and implementing various peer educational activities iii. Sandy Hook Anonymous Reporting App Report to be given to the
School Board monthly e. Second Student Safety Summit:
i. Early May f. Other:
i. Monthly meetings with community leaders (police chiefs, Brooklyn
Bridge, Push for Peach, CEO, community interveners) with discussion around any events or circumstances that may spill back into schools. Ex.
court verdicts, community violence/incidents, fires, etc.
ACTION: Director Powell will notify the Board if there is an appropriate opportunity for school board directors to attend a meeting.
2. Identified needed updates/items from IS Voight's memo dated 1/30/24. ACTION: List to be sent to IS Voight week of 3/4/24
3. Committee work on School Board letter to stakeholders (as promised from 11/20/23)
4. Committee work on a threshold for the Superintendent to notify the Board of incidents. ACTION: Document for full BOE head nod on 3/4/24.
School Board Closed Session at the request of Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee
January 30, 2024:
Actions: Board of Education Closed session pursuant to Minnesota Statutes 13D.05 subdivisions
2 (a)(3) and subdivision 3(d) to receive security briefings, and discuss all facilities' security systems and emergency response procedures conducted on Jan 31, 2024
a. Further areas and steps identified to be worked on in Safety & Security Ad Hoc
Committee
5

School Board Work Session at the request of Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee
January 23, 2024:
Agenda:
1. Review/overview of procedures regarding when staff are injured on the job
2. Review/overview of Administrative steps/procedures taken to trespass an individual
(adult or minor) from school grounds
3. Review/overview of procedures regarding staff discipline (all levels)
4. Administrative overview of referral forms and streamline plan
5. Alternative technology options for tracking Level I & II behaviors
6. Board follow-up discussion regarding work session on 11/6/23 with Principals
7. Review/overview of student participation in school events after discipline measures
8. Discussion on continued violence within 281 schools and behavior correction strategies a. BARR
b. PBIS
Administration Update sent to all Board directors on January 30, 2024 which included an update on the Jan 23, 2024 work session and next steps. This document is available here:
1/23/24 Work Session Update
6

January 17, 2023 - Attendees: Directors Bowman, Long & Holmes, Director of Safety &
Security Bo Powell
1. Final review of Safety and Security Recommendations provided via e-mail on
Jan 5, 2024 by Director Powell & Interim Superintendent Voight. Action: Ad Hoc
Committee prepare chart of recommendations for BOE review and discussion;
2. Discussion and recommendation on critical threshold notification to the BOE;
3. Discussion and agreement on recommitment to the Sandy Hook Promise
Programs;
4. Two outstanding scheduling items:
a. CLOSED SESSION for discussion on crisis preparedness plans as recommended by Director Powell & Interim Superintendent Voight. In the meeting, action should be taken on what details/terms can be shared with stakeholders with the understanding that certain specifics must remain confidential for safety purposes.
b. Schedule a lockdown drill for the School Board at ESC as recommended by
Interim Superintendent Voight & Director Powell.
December 20, 2023 - Attendees: Directors Bowman, Long & Holmes, Director of Safety
& Security Bo Powell, Interim Superintendent Marti Voight
5. Started meeting with Interim Superintendent Voight and Director Powell distributing the following information to Directors:
a. Draft form of Critical Threshold Response to the School Board b. Incident Command Organizational Personnel Chart c. Blank Robbinsdale Area Schools Debrief Protocol Dated 12/11/23
d. Sandy Hook YTD Say Something Anonymous Reporting App Report - missing a middle school. Action: Director Powell to provide an updated report to the
Ad Hoc Committee.
6. Discussion on the most recent PMS altercation brought to the attention of the RAS
School Board Listening Hour on 12/18/23. Action: Directors requested After Incident
Review;
7. Brainstorming as a group on a list of actions/items including metal detectors, substance abuse counselors, vape detectors, discipline tracking process for administrators/adults in buildings, Action: Director Powell to provide a wish list of
7

items/recommendations before winter break. Item received January 5, 2024;
Next Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee Meeting: January 17, 2024.
Prior Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee updates can be viewed here:
January 8 Safety & Security Ad Hoc Committee Updates
8