Safety and Security
2024-25
John Groenke - Executive Director of Student Services
Bo Powell - Director of Safety and Security
Maureen Mullen - Director of Facilities and Operations
Toni Boyden - Director of Student Services
Tim Shaikoski - Psychologist, Armstrong High School

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these
Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

STRATEGIC THEMES:
Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety.

Presentation Outcomes
1. An understanding of school safety and security efforts across the country, state and in Robbinsdale Area Schools.
2. An understanding of how school safety and security work includes both emotional/psychological safety and the physical safety of our schools.
3. An understanding of the systems Robbinsdale Area Schools has in place to address both types of safety and security needs.
4. An understanding of the continued and ongoing work being done to improve safety and security in the Robbinsdale Area Schools.
5

Statutorily Required Programs and Services
● MN State Statute 121.A.035 Crisis Management
■ District Policy 806: Crisis Management Policy
● District Administrative Procedure 903
■ Visitors to School Buildings
■ (Up for revision w/ Policy Committee SY24-25)

Emergency Response Best Practice
● Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
○ Emergency Management Model
○ Incident Command System (ICS) training
● Homeland Security and Emergency Management (HSEM)
● Minnesota School Safety Center (MnSSC)
○ Trainings and resources for schools to help prepare, respond, mitigate and recover from all hazard emergencies
● SchoolSafety.gov
○ Resources to create safe and supportive learning environments for students and educators

Nationally Recognized Best Practice
● The I Love You Guys Foundation
○ Standard Response Protocol (SRP)
○ Standard Reunification Method (SRM)
● National Association of School Psychologists
○ PREPaRE
● Raptor
○ Visitor Management
○ Emergency Management

Emergency Management Life Cycle
Crisis management stages:
1. Mitigation (Prevention): Identify and address vulnerabilities that could lead to crises
2. Preparedness: Ensure staff, students and families are ready to respond when a crisis occurs
3. Response: Immediate action to stabilize the situation and protect the school community
4. Recovery: Long-term restoration and healing for the school community

Stage One - Mitigation/Prevention
Identify and address vulnerabilities
● Physical security
● Behavioral prevention
● Emergency planning

Stage Two - Preparedness
Ensure staff, students and families are ready to respond
● Crisis plans
● Training and drills
● Communication systems

Stage Three - Response
Stabilize the situation and protect our school community
● Executing crisis plans
● Coordination
● Communication

Stage Four - Recovery
Long-term restoration and healing
● Physical restoration
● Psychological care
● Evaluation and improvement
● Resuming operations

Emergency Response
The immediate actions taken to address a crisis or emergency, ensuring the safety and well-being of all involved, stabilizing the situation, and minimizing damage or harm.

Response Teams
Emergency Management Team
● Establish and support the ongoing and continuous safety, security and emergency management roles and responsibilities
District/Building Care and Support Teams-
● Secure the physical and psychological safety of students and staff

Emergency Response Measures
● Standard Response Protocol (SRP)
● Emergency Response Guides
● Standard Reunification Method (SRM)
● Care and Support Teams

Rdale Emergency Response Guide

"Recovery starts when the incident begins."
John Michael Keyes - the I Love You Guys Foundation

The Standard Reunification Method (SRM)

PREPaRE
PREPaRE trains school-employed mental health professionals and other educators how to best fill the roles and responsibilities generated by their membership on school crisis response teams.

Emotional/Psychological Safety
PREPaRE-trained school employees can address the mental health issues associated with school crises.
P: Prevent and prepare for crises
R: Reaffirm physical health & welfare, and perceptions of safety and security
E: Evaluate psychological trauma risk
P: Provide interventions a: and
R: Respond to mental health needs
E: Examine the effectiveness of crisis preparedness

Prevent and Prepare for Trauma
One of the goals of crisis intervention is to minimize trauma and facilitate active coping so students can restore basic problem solving abilities and return to pre-crisis levels of functioning.

Care and Support Teams
● Support physical health and safety
○ Keep students safe
● Support psychological health and safety
○ Recognize importance of adult reactions and behaviors
○ Minimize crisis exposure
○ Reunite/locate parents/guardians, other family members
○ Provide facts and adaptive interpretations
○ Return students to safe school environment

Community Resources
● Hennepin County Crisis
● National Crisis Line
● Local Hospitals
● Parent Outreach Program
● Schools to Housing
● Legal Resource Center and CRMS
● Mental Health Services
○ Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics
○ School Linked Mental Health Therapists

Systems and Practices

District Systems and Practices
● Camera System/Card Access/Intrusion System
● Radio Communication System
● Raptor Visitor and Emergency Management
● Gaggle Cyber Security
● Sandy Hook Promise
● Emergency Response Partner Relationships

Rdale Perimeter Security
● All exterior doors are locked during school hours
● Digital card access controls door lock release for authorized users

Visitor Access
● AiPhone used for positive visual ID before building access is granted
● Allows for direct communication with office staff

Raptor Technologies
● Visitor management
● Emergency
Management
Notifications

Two-Way Radios
● Immediate Communication
Between Staff Members
● Enhanced Safety and
Coordination
● Redundancy in
Communication

Surveillance Cameras
Enhances Security
● Captures activities inside and outside the premises
Safeguards Students
● Captures footage to help identify potential dangers

Reducing Vulnerabilities
Tools currently in use that help identify risks and prevent violence, self-harm, and bullying
○ Gaggle
○ Sandy Hook Promise

Gaggle
Proactively assists with prevention of harmful behavior and situations 24 / 7 / 365
● Filtering
● Flags
● Notification

Sandy Hook Promise Program
● 6-12 staff and students trained in steps to prevent violence:
○ Recognize warning signs and threats of someone who may be at risk of hurting themselves or others
○ Act immediately and take it seriously
○ Say something to a trusted adult or contact the tip line
● Students Against Violence Everywhere -
Promise Club

Gaggle
Sandy Hook Promise
Student's online activity is
Student submit tips online, by monitored and alerts are sent to school administrators when there text or by phone.
is cause for concern.
Administration Response
The School administration investigates the issue and responds accordingly, which may include disciplinary action.
Parent Notification
Depending on the severity of the issue, parents are notified, as needed.

Law Enforcement Partners

Emergency Response Partners

Partnerships

Upcoming Safety Enhancements
● Crisis Management revisions incorporating the Standard
Response Protocol
● Before and After School Emergency Response Procedures
● District Crisis Management Team reviewed and updated annually
● District Administrators trained in the National Incident
Command System (ICS) for Schools
● Broadened site-based radio coverage
● IT System Redundancy

Current and Ongoing Training
● The I Love You Guys Foundation
○ Standard Response Protocol (SRP)
○ Standard Reunification Protocol (SRM)
● Raptor
○ Visitor Management
○ Drill Management
● Trauma-informed Crisis Intervention
○ UKERU
○ Crisis Prevention Intervention (CPI)
● Sandy Hook Promise and Gaggle
● PREPaRE

Thank You
Comments & Discussion

STANDARD"
RESPONSE PROTOCOL

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

Rdale Emergency Response Guide

Robbinsdale Area Schools \&
EMERGENCY RESPONSE GUIDE

HOLD

Medical Emergency/
Individual Crisis

+ Move students away from the incident location.
Students outside may remain outside.

+ Staff should scan and keep hallways clear.
Instruction and normal activity may continue unless directed via PA system. Await further instructions.

'+ Remain at current location until an announcement is made to resume the normally
'Scheduled activities and movement in the building,

SECURE

(inside)
Threat OUTSIDE the building

'+ Alert and bring all students and staff inside from outside activities (recess, gym. science class. etc.)

'+ Close and lock exterior windows and doors.
Cover exterior windows. if possible.

'+ Instruction and all normal indoor activity may continue unless otherwise directed.

SEVERE
WEATHER

Threat OUTSIDE the building

LOCKDOWN

Threat INSIDE the building

'Scan the hallway quickly and move students and others into the nearest room,

Close and lock all doors. Consider putting
'objects in front of the door as a barricade.

'Turn off lights, stay out of sight and instruct students to stay quiet, calm and alert.

No one should leave the room.

In the event of a fire alarm during a lockdown, do not evacuate,

'Students and Staff: SILENCE cell phones.

'Stay put. pending further instruction. If confronted with a life or death situation. use your judgment to evade, distract or defend with any object available.

EVACUATE

Threat INSIDE the building

Follow posted evacuation routes, fire exit routes or exit signs to get outside, Choose the safest route,

Teachers should bring a class roster. if possible, when leaving the building.

'Move to the designated meeting areas outside the building. a safe distance away.

For situations involving hazardous materials,
'move upwind.

'Once outside at the designated meeting area, teachers should take attendance. Report any missing students to the building administrator

+ Direct all people to the nearest severe
'weather shelter or safe area within the building,

+ When appropriate, instruct students to "duck and cover" with backs against the wall
Remain in the sheltered areas until further instructions are given or the warning is cleared.

Remain in the safe areas until further instruction is given or the event is cleared.

HA rossnsonce
JAreo Senos
Revised: Aug. 22,2024

|

The Standard Reunification Method (SRM)

ti

S TANDARD
REUNIFICATION METHOD.

> 0:03/4:15

Area Schools

Systems and Practices

NP

ren Law Enforcement Partners

PLYMOUTH §
POLICE _

®

oases Emergency Response Partners

PLYMOUTH
FIRE-RESCUE FIRE BROOKLYN

PARK
-

Partnerships

rihh ~w &

City of Robbinsdale CITY of CRYSTAL

Brooklyn \
Park

Thank You

Comments & Discussion