2355 Fairview Ave N. #113, Roseville, MN 55113
Tobin.Lay@MediationCenterMN.org
Cell: 651-802-9951
Robbinsdale Area Schools Special Mediation(s)
INTRODUCTION
This document provides an overview, general scope, estimated hours and cost, and information about Mediation Center, its facilitators and mediators, and the special mediation session that is recommended by the Mediation Center and OCDR joint facilitation team (hereafter Facilitation
Team) for approval by the Robbinsdale Area Schools Board of Directors. The special mediation session(s) falls outside of the Phase I Collaborative Problem-Solving agreement that is currently underway by the Facilitation Team.
Mediation is a process where a neutral party facilitates a dialogue or negotiation between two or more individuals. The objective of mediation is for the parties to work through differences and mutually agree to a resolution or outcome.
The purpose of the special mediation session(s) is to influence the effectiveness of the Board meetings by providing some aid to select Board Directors now while the Board determines how to proceed with the Facilitation Team's Phase I recommendations. The special mediation session(s) is only one solution of many to come. The Facilitation Team had planned already to include this mediation along with the other recommendations in its Phase I report. It is presented here, separate from the other recommendations, as an early intervention.
The Board may choose to enter into additional contracts with Mediation Center and/or OCDR
to address the other recommendations but those are not being considered in this agreement.
This recommendation is based on interview feedback and observations from the Facilitation
Team during the assessment phase.
BACKGROUND
Due to struggles experienced by the Board during Board meetings, the Facilitation Team met with individuals designated by the Board to serve on a Design Team (hereafter Design Team)
to recommend that mediation(s) be started now, before Phase I recommendations are presented. The Design Team agreed that this mediation(s) would be helpful. As the Board is eager to get started making improvements in Board dynamics, the Facilitation Team recommends this mediation(s) takes place now. Additional interventions will be
1

recommended in the Phase I assessment report.
To be clear, mediation is separate from the service that has taken place during Phase I. Thus far, the Facilitation Team has focused on during Phase I is assessing the situation so accurate and complete recommendations can be made, which will include mediation and other collaborative problem-solving tools. Additional mediations will be part of the recommendation for use in Phase II.
MEDIATOR (BIO ATTACHED)
Members of the Facilitation Team propose using Carolien Moors to conduct one or more mediation sessions with select Directors of the Board in an early intervention. Although each of the Facilitation Team members are trained mediators, they believe it will be more effective for someone new to mediate now. This is because of the roles that the Facilitators have played and the relationships they have built with each Board Director during the assessment phase. If approved, Carolien Moors will begin right away.
Ms. Moors has over 32-years of experience with conflict resolution work, is trained in mediation skills, and has received three Master degrees in psychology and education. Ms.
Moors bio is attached.
Although this mediation(s) is separate from the assessment agreement that the Facilitation
Team is currently working under, the mediator will coordinate her efforts and consult with the
Facilitation Team regarding future mediation(s).
C ONSIDERATIONS FOR ESTIMATED H OURLY EFFORT
In a mediation, it is important that the mediator is and is perceived by the parties as neutral and unbiased. Mediator confidentiality is a major tenet in the mediation process. The mediator will not disclose information shared and discussed during the mediation unless expressly authorized to do so by the parties or as is required by law. Parties to the mediation are also encouraged to maintain confidentiality of the mediation proceedings. This helps ensure a safe environment where parties to the mediation feel encouraged to disclose and talk through sensitive thoughts and feelings.
The special mediation process will consist of the following:
1. The mediator will conduct intake interviews with each party to the mediation.
a. Each intake interview is estimated to last 90-min and be conducted via phone or zoom.
2. The mediator will conduct one or more mediation sessions.
a. The first mediation session will be a 3-hour block of in-person mediation.
b. If more time is needed then an additional session would be scheduled at the end of the first session.
3. The mediator will consult with the Facilitation Team regarding possible future mediations.
2

4. The Facilitation Team will make recommendations to the Board of next steps.
E STIMATED H OURLY EFFORT
We estimate the cost for the mediation session(s) to range from $3,320 to $6,360, depending on the number of sessions needed and how much liaison communications are needed between the
Board and the Facilitation Team. The mediator's rate is $360/hr and each facilitator's rate is
$200/hr.
ESTIMATED ESTIMATED
TASK HOURS COST
Mediator Intake Interviews 3.00 $1,080.00
$1,080.00-
Mediation 3.00-6.00 $2,160.00
$560.00-
Mediator and Facilitation Team Consultation (up to 2-hrs) 1.00-2.00 $1,120.00
Admin: creating reports, liaison communications, $600-
coordination, etc. 3.00-10.00 $2,000.00
TOTAL ESTIMATED 10.00-21.00 $3,320.00
NOT TO EXCEED TOTAL $6,360.00
*District staff will assist in providing and scheduling neutral meeting locations, set-up, and copies as necessary.
EXPENSES
Mediation Center expenses will include reasonable travel expenses (travel time) for meetings outside the seven-county Twin Cities metro area (Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin, Ramsey,
Scott, and Washington) and meeting materials if necessary.
3

ATTACHMENTS
Mediator's Bios - page 5
About Mediation Center - page 6
4

Biography Carolien Moors M. Psych. and M.Ed.
Carolien Moors is the founder of HardTalk Biz Coaching. She is an organization development consultant who provides executive and team coaching, leadership retreats, change management consultation, and all-staff workshops for organizations large and small. These services help create meaningful individual, team, and organizational change and elevate effectiveness at all three levels. Carolien also provides webinars and keynote speeches at national and international conferences.
Carolien is thankful for 32 years of experience with numerous clients in a wide variety of industries in the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, and the U.S. Her consulting services strengthen leaders' capability to be eager and agile learners and to be strategic and mindful leaders of their people and their culture. Carolien focuses on enhancing transition and change management, strengthening emotional intelligence, improving leadership influence, elevating team functioning, and strengthening organizational communication, collaboration, resilience, and accountability.
Carolien is known for a practical, engaging, caringly candid, and strategic approach. She applies insights from fields such as system thinking, cognitive neuroscience, and psychology, as well as insights from renowned research institutions searching for best practices in leadership, change management, and organization development.
Carolien received three Master degrees in psychology and education from universities in the
Netherlands and the United Kingdom and she applies insights from her experiences living in the
Netherlands, the U.K, Singapore, and the U.S.
On a personal note, Carolien has served on multiple boards in the Netherlands and the U.S. and she donates her expertise every year to a non-profit. Carolien has always volunteered in roles such as a Guardian ad Litem, a volunteer police officer, a group leader for people with disabilities, a hospice companion, and other meaningful causes.
Carolien loves to entertain, cook for friends, read, hike, travel, enjoy performing arts, ride her
Yamaha FZ8, and above all, spend quality time with her family of five.
5

WHO WE ARE
Our team's collaboration creates one of the most culturally and professionally rich pools of consultants, facilitators, and mediators in the Midwest. We are drawn to work together to work with groups who want to build their internal capacity and make transformative, sustainable changes. Our specialty is to help groups engage in dialogue across worldviews, build consensus for a path forward, and manage agreements.
Our Principles for Working with Clients:
• Consultative Partnerships
• Participant Agreed Upon Outcomes
• Tailored Interventions
• Transparency
• All Perspectives Reflected
• Collaborative Process Design
WHY WE WORK TOGETHER
Many organizations are experiencing a need for radical change. Organizations need to respond to racial inequity, connect while social distancing, plan during an economic downturn, adapt leadership, and find sustainable solutions. The impacts of disruption and radical change can easily lead to conflict, reluctance, fear and to simply feeling overwhelmed - all of which can challenge an organization's ability to move forward in a unified way.
We know that this is hard yet necessary work. Our diverse team helps build comfort that all voices will be solicited, honored, and understood. When inevitable challenges arise, we have the technical expertise on our team to help organizations face them with resourcefulness. Our team has experience in:
• Nonprofit management and boards
• Public Policy
• Government administration
• Management
• Corporate consulting
• Conflict Resolution
• Risk Management
• Organization Development
• Leadership
• Environmental and other regulatory processes
• Education
• Psychology
• Nursing
• Law
• Communication
6

WHAT WE DO
Consulting: We work with organizations to understand and evaluate their present systems for their delivery of services and constructively evolve. Our EVOLVE model takes organizations through a proven sequence of assessing and understanding the current situation, defining desired outcomes, sharing information, gaining support through dialogue, and developing integrative solutions.
Assessment: Our assessments provide specific suggestions for moving forward to address difficult issues. An assessment explains the roots of conflict, understands the various perspectives through deep listening, validates the issues to be addressed, and determines whether there is a reasonable possibility of designing a process to manage conflict, build understanding and resolve disputes.
Process Design & Facilitation: We work with leaders who want to learn and integrate the wisdom of others through authentic engagement. Team members design and facilitate tailored processes that inform decision making.
• Facilitating mindful strategic planning
• Facilitating public input processes for contentious public issues
• Moderating community advisory groups
• Supporting community engagement efforts
• Facilitating stakeholder negotiations
• Designing conflict response and management systems
Mediation: Mediation is more formal than facilitation. Mediators are impartial third parties who facilitate conversations or decision-making processes. Mediation Center team members specialize in mediating organizational issues where maintaining relationships and working across worldview differences are important to the participants.
Education: We help individuals become more aware of their own (and others') biases that their experiences have reinforced, how they interact with power structures, authority, minority perspectives, economic influences, and realities that are foreign to them.
• Navigating Cultural/Worldview Conflicts: Responding to Bias, Stereotyping and
Prejudice
• Strategic Negotiation & Problem-Solving Skills: Working Through Issues When
Working Together
• Beyond the Handshake - Building Relationships for the Future
• Mediation Skills
7