To: School Board
Re: Infrastructure & Transportation Ad Hoc Committee
Date: May 6th Worksession:
From: Ad Hoc Infrastructure and Transportation Committee
Work Session: Agenda: May 6th
● A transportation update:
○ On time routes
○ Staffing
○ Questions and Answers re: Transportation
● Update provided below on
○ Transportation
○ Infrastructure
Transportation:
Where are we:
Durham's contract for 24-25 was signed with a capped increase of 3%.
Questions posed to Board of Education in October of 2023:
● Will we continue to purchase/lease regular education and special education (Sped)buses? No
● Will we need to invest in energy storage for the fleet if we pursue renewable energy? No
● Bus garage plans and proposed timeline? No
● As a district are we ready for more than one company fulfilling the district's RFP request? Yes
● Do we make changes to Fair Pilgrim , Fair Crystal RSI or SEA?
○ Will Fair Crystal go to middle school times? No
○ Will Fair Pilgrim, RSI, Sea continue at their current times? Yes
● Will Special Education Transportation Change? No
● Will routing be part of the contract? Yes
Where are we going:
● Week of May 12, 2024: finalize RFP
● Week of August 26th: (Changes to Routes, quantities, locations, and types) to be updated on the RFP
● Week of Oct. 7 and Oct. 14, 2024: notice
● Week of Oct. 21 and Oct. 28, 2024: publication
● Week of Nov. 4 2024: bid opens at 10 a.m. on Nov. 7th, 2024
○ Week of Nov. 10, 2024: discussions of RFP bids received
What is the plan/outcome:
● Award contracts Nov. 18th, 2024

● Will be a 2 year contract with renewal for 3 additional one -year periods.
● Anticipated increase of 6%-12% ( possible higher) over the 2024-2025 school year rates
● Possibility of more than one contractor for Reg Ed
Infrastructure:
Where are we:
The Comprehensive Facility Plan was proposed in late 2023 as a two-phase process.
Phase One:
The Facilities Department commenced work on Phase One, as it encompassed a scope of work which is vital to updating our 10-year LTFM plan, as required by the Minnesota Department of
Education on an annual basis. The FOT department directed industry experts to examine the condition and anticipated longevity of existing systems in our facilities. We obtained summary analyses of all Rdale buildings for all major building systems and site conditions.
This work was then compiled into a central spreadsheet and assigned anticipated costs so we could chart out the needed scope of work to maintain all of our sites per year, over the next ten years. This is a required component of our Long Term Facility Maintenance plan. Having conducted this comprehensive understanding of current conditions results in a more accurate
10-year plan, which is required to be updated on an annual basis as we submit our documentation to MDE.
Phase Two:
The second phase of our Comprehensive Facility Plan was presented as having two options in how to proceed. One option was through the hiring of an outside consultant to conduct the work, the other option was to conduct the work in-house. The district is recommending conducting this work in house, as it is the most fiscally prudent option of the two. Further detail on what Phase
Two entails is outlined below.
Where are we going:
The district will commence planning for this work over the summer with engagement sessions (in which to gather vital input) starting in the Fall of 2024. This planning phase will generate the questions we need answered, goals of the engagement, information that needs to be gathered to make this plan a successful and useful tool for the district, and the creation of a framework for accomplishing this.
This intentional process of planning will ensure that needed input is identified before initializing engagement to make the engagement meaningful, as well as allow for a good communications strategy to reach a broad array of stakeholders (leadership, parents, students, community partners, etc...)
The outcome of this engagement will be the generation of a prioritized list of possible infrastructure improvements in the district. These might include things such as remodeling learning environments, additions, mothballing, demolition, new construction, etc... We will not have the list of the actual proposed work until after this position of Phase Two is completed. We

can then conduct some diagrammatic conceptual visualization exercises and assign financial value to the scopes of work, which can then help inform district leadership in their selection of priorities and future work in the district.
The conceptual timeline for this work is currently phased as such:
Summer 2024: Planning & Framework
Fall 2024: Stakeholder Engagement
Winter 2024/25: Alignment & Conceptual Diagrammatic Visualization
Spring 2025: Outcomes & Recommendations
What is the plan/outcome:
The goal of the Comprehensive Facility Plan would be to have an overarching vision for any changes to the built environment of the district, which will impact both LTFM work scopes in the future as well as possible capital projects to undertake, and the opportunities for funding them.
This will be to the benefit of learners, teachers, and staff throughout the district, as well as the community at large.
Action Steps to discuss at Infrastructure & Transportation
Facilities Condition Plan Update to the board 5/6/24
Transportation update to the board 5/6/24
Supporting Documents:
Comprehensive Facilities Plan
Transportation RFP Process
West Metro 2024-26 Contractor Survey