Why elementary kids need sleep
Dear Superintendent,
Studies show that kids need more sleep than teenagers. When I get up im really tired I almost don't have enough energy to do math. My sister in 6th grade wakes up early anyways. I get up at 6:15 every school day then I have to get dressed eat breakfast brush my hair do my hair get my backpack ready that is a lot of things to do in only 1 hour and i'm only getting 8 hours of sleep. I hope you consider changing the start time.
Sincerely, Isabelle Astrike

Changing the school time
By Claire Thorman and the kids of zachary lane.

The school time and how we can change it together
Dear Superintendent,
I don't think that it is fair that the
MIddle schoolers get to sleep in longer.
I see why they need sleep. But we need sleep too. Take me for example. I wake up at six thirty every morning go downstairs, eat breakfast, get changed, brush my teeth, then brush my hair, and then go. It is stressful and by the time I am at school, I feel like I
can just fall asleep.

A picture of sleep. See the effect on the next page.
AJs mother is helping AJ fall asleep telling him a story. AJ will be rested by tomorrow.
Once upon a time an old witch locked a princess in a tower.

AJ is ready for school!
AJ is energized!

The facts of school and sleep
Now that I showed you my beginning here are the facts.
1. When you wake up early your body is not as energized.
2. You don't do as well on tests because your body just wants to sleep
3. Adults can get by on sleeping for six hours but we need at least ten
4. If you have a big test and did not sleep then you could get moved down a grade, even though you are smart.
5. If you don't sleep that much,you could be doing damage to your body.

Middle school kids and elementary school kids
This will explain about the middle schoolers and us, elementary kids.
Though it is true that middle school kids need sleep, it is also true that we need sleep too. The American Academy of Sleep Medicine has recommended that children aged 6 to 12 years should regularly sleep 9-12 hours per 24 hours and teenagers aged 13-18 should sleep 8-10 hours per 24 hours.

In conclusion
I, and the kids from Zachary Lane Elementary, think that school should start later, and would like if you made the change of time.
From Claire Thorman.

Why we should change the school start time!
By Lucy Peters

Ok us elementary school kids NEED sleep 9 to 12 hours of sleep and middle schoolers well... they only need 8 to 10 hours that is less!!!!!!!!! Honestly I would go to sleep in class if I could. And sometimes we get so tired we have the
ZOOMIES you don't want kids with the zoomies. If you don't know what the zoomies are it is when we get so tired that we get an really big energy burst that we run around for a long time. Ok now that you know what the zoomies are. You can fix the problem. Thank you for your patience.
Sincerely,
Lucy Peters

Dear Superintendent,
I am speaking for every elementary kid when I say this, with all due respect, we wake up way too early and we need more sleep. We are having a harder time on tests and if this keeps up we might have a classroom that always sleeps instead of a classroom that never sleeps and it is like the younger the grade the earlier the time it starts. Older kids have more self control then younger kids and that means they have enough self control to not press snooze on the alarm clock, again with all due respect.
Sincerely And Respectfully,
Emma Sue Michaels

AJ is ready for school!

AJ is energized!