ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Approved March 18, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, March 4, 2024, beginning at 6:04 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: httos://www,rdale,ora/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:04 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Vento moved to accept the agenda, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted

against the same: none: Said motion was declared duly passed.

Operations

A. Action: City of Plymouth 36th Avenue Street Rehabilitation Project
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved to approve option two (of three): Site Improvement Option and pay the assessment cost estimated at $755,000.00 in one year (FY26), and Chair Bowman seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Application for Athletic Cooperative between Armstrong High School and Avalon Charter School for
Boys Tennis
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken theron, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, and Vento. The following voted against the same: none. The following abstained from voting: Directors
Holmes and Long: Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Action; Policy 506 - Student Discipline
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Action: Policy 606 - Selection of Curricula and Instructional Materials
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

E. Action: Policy 606.1 - Library Materials
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval and waived reading, and Director Brooks seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

F. Non-Action: Operating Referendum Resolution and Capital Projects Levy
Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent and Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance reviewed information with the Board and responded to questions. It was recommended that these items be brought to the Work Session on Monday, March 18, 2024 for further discussion and clarification.

G. Non-Action: Resolution for Non-Resident Enrollment Capacity Limits
Interim Superintendent Voight and Ms. Verbrugge, reviewed information and responded to questions from
Board members.

H. Governance Policy Manual Task Force
Chair Bowman and Clerk Evans-Becker are working to index and format the School Board Governance Policy
Manual to bring to the Board for feedback, and noted they would be meeting again Thursday, March 7, 2024.

|. Policy Update ; .
Governance Policy Committee members thanked the district staff for their work in the policies approved tonight, and noted their next meeting would be Wednesday, March 13, 2024.

J. School Safety Update
Director Holmes discussed the following:
e ape detecting systems vendor has been determined - tentatively planned installation during spring break e Security cameras being finalized this week e Sandy Hook Promise (SHP) relaunch had an 88-89% participation rate with no issues - committee

requests SHP report to be brought to the Board monthly e Second Student Safety Summit is being planned for May e Bo Powell, Director of Security, meets with police chiefs monthly - committee requests that Mr. Powell see if it would be appropriate for Board members to attend

e Working on letter for stakeholders, noting that they are taking time for details e Shared the Board notification threshold document
Director Long noted that we need to schedule a meeting with Mr. Powell for Board members to walk through drills. Next meeting is tentatively scheduled for March 27, 2024.

K. Student Achievement Update
Bridget Hall, Interim Assistant Superintendent, provided a brief review of K-12 mathematics, and responded to questions from the Board. Interim Superintendent Voight shared about Career and Technical Pathways student participation in the Construct Tomorrow event on February 14, 2024 - 74 students from district high schools experienced hands-on learning activities featuring construction trades. Students will come forward in
April to share their Career Pathways experiences with the Board.

L. Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Update
Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee met prior to the Business Meeting tonight -
committee requested discussion occur at a Work Session ASAP regarding need for a facilities study prior to preparation for an RFP for transportation - what happens with facilities will affect what happens with transportation. Other Board members requested assurances that the RFP will occur this fall on deadline.

M. Human Resources (HR) Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of HR, noted that hard to fill licensed positions have been posted. March 22
licensed staff layoff assignments will be listed. Individuals are now required to fill out a resignation and retirement form, which is 11 questions long (in lieu of an exit interview). 111 have filled them out so far, and the data will be shared at the March 18 Business Meeting. Executive Director of Finance position will be posted March 5.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Chair : Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed. '

Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
8:07 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Le Land bicki pate_ 35: /S oz)

Dr. Gréta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, ISD 281