ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved November 4, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, October 21, 2024, beginning at 7:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. Directors present: ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks,

Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director Bassett was absent. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
Chair Bowman asked for a motion to approve the Business Meeting agenda.

MOTION: Director Vento moved to accept the Business Meeting agenda, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Rdale Proud - Showcase: Forest Elementary - Bike Bus
Melissa Jackson, Principal of Forest Elementary
Sarah Henning, Music Teacher

Officer John Wilkes, Crystal Police Department
Lena Anderson, 4th Grade Student "
A presentation was provided regarding the Bike Bus at Forest Elementary, which occurred on Fridays in September. It aligns to Strategic Plan Themes B (Student Engagement and Wellness) and C (Collaboration and Partnerships). A
Bike Bus is a group of adults and students who ride their bikes to school together. The concept was developed by
Coach Sam Balto, a teacher in Portland, Oregon. It was well-received by everyone involved, built community and brought joy for students in getting to school via bicycle. Forest will likely begin this again in the spring.

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique

potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates

career, articulated trades and college ready. She provided an update on activities, which included:

e October 8, 2024 Superintendent Staloch attended the Plymouth City Council meeting

e October 10, 2024 at a Serve Minnesota event - Rdale received a 2024 Future Award for Bridge2Read, Mary Jane
Adams, Principal of Sonnesyn Elementary, attended on behalf of the district

e October 10, 2024 Superintendent Staloch (along with Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and
Multilingual Programs) attended the Golden Valley DEI Commission as one of three speakers in regard to Ethnic
Studies

e Willie Jett, Minnesota Commissioner of Education, attended the Indigenous Peoples Day Celebration at
Robbinsdale Middle School with district Cabinet members on Monday, October 14, 2024

e Early Learning Family night was held on Monday, October 14, 2024 - was attended by 620 people

e October 14, 2024 Superintendent Staloch attended the Neill Elementary PTA meeting and the New Hope City
Council Meeting

e October 15, 2024 Superintendent Staloch attended the Golden Valley City Council Meeting, and the SEA PTA
meeting

e Superintendent Staloch noted that Armstrong is the only high school in Minnesota to be selected to do "Harry
Potter and the Cursed Child" - opening night is Wednesday, October 30, 2024 - FOX 9 did a story on the production

Review and Comment Discussion
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Ms. Hoheisel provided information regarding the positive review and comment received from Commissioner Jett from the Minnesota Department of Education (MDE) on September 4, 2024. Due to statute, this discussion needed to occur prior to the referendum vote.

Safety and Security Report

John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services

Toni Boyden, Director of Student services

Maureen Mullen, Director of Facilities and Operations

Bo Powell, Director of Security

Tim Shaikoski, School Psychologist at Armstrong

The Board received a presentation regarding safety and security in an effort to achieve the following outcomes:

e anunderstanding of school safety and security efforts across the country, state and in RAS

e anunderstanding of how school safety and security work includes both emotional/psychological safety and the physical of our schools

e anunderstanding of the systems RAS has in place to address both types of safety and security needs

e anunderstanding of the continued and ongoing work being done to improve safety and security in the RAS

A lengthy discussion followed the report, including questions for which responses need to be gathered and provided

to the Board.

Operations

A. Action: Approval of Financial Advisory Council (FAC) Appointees
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Brooks, Evans-Becker, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman, Holmes, and Long. Said motion failed. Discussion led to canceling the FAC
meeting scheduled for Tuesday, October 22, 2024.

B. Action: Resolution Accepting September 2024 Donations
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of $27,734.02 in donations, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
The committee's next meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, November 6, 2024 at 4:30 p.m.

E. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee Report
The committee's next meeting is scheduled for Thursday, November 14, 2024 at 5:30 p.m.

F. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Report
Chair Bowman has worked with Clerk Evans-Becker to add in proposed changes to the draft in progress, Cabinet has been adding the pieces they have been assigned. School Board Directors were asked to get any further feedback in to the Chair and Clerk ASAP so they can provide an updated draft at the November 4, 2024 Work
Session.

G. Policy Committee Report
Marti Voight, Assistant Superintendent, noted the final group of policies/procedures with legislative changes and/or annual review will be coming for consent on November 4, 2024 at the Business Meeting.
Anne Becker from Becker Law is working with the Policy Committee to draft new 200 series policies. The goal is to have all of them completed by the end of the 2024 calendar year.

H. Administrative Updates
Superintendent Staloch had no Administrative Updates tonight.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Holmes. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and

community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Holmes facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the

Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Six individuals submitted requests and spoke in regard to:

e Effective School Board function moving forward, providing positive encouragement for the Board to take steps recommended in the Conflict Assessment Report

e The story of her daughter's random assault at Robbinsdale Middle School (RMS), in the hope that she could solicit CHANGE

e 2024 Referendum/Levy - not supporting 10 years of continued spending at current rates

Board Matters - in regard to NAACP complaint, encouraging Board action

e School Safety - regarding assaults her students have endured at Plymouth Middle School and Armstrong, affecting their mental health

e Promoting the Arts (need more promotion at the district level), Contracts (from July 1 only now on the consent agenda - why?), Financial Reporting (need to show true alignment of actuals to anticipated budget at this point, not a percentage of the overall budget)

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Brooks moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at 9:46 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
Signed: Lei antt Kiefer Date: Wt 7, Z2O0QY

Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, ISD 281