Independent School District 281, Robbinsdale Area Schools
522.1 Policy: Gender Identity
Draft, May 16, 2024
I. PURPOSE
Our efforts in this district in addressing safety and bullying should be in compliance with the expectations embedded in the Minnesota Safe and Supportive Schools Act.
Students are protected from discrimination on the basis of sex pursuant to Title IX of the
Education Amendments of 1972 and on the basis of sex and sexual orientation pursuant to the
Minnesota Human Rights Act. Under Title IX, sex includes failure to conform to sex-based stereotypes.
Under the Minnesota Human Rights Act, sexual orientation includes gender identity and gender expression. The purpose of this administrative procedure is to assist administrators and district staff in providing a safe, secure and dignified educational and work atmosphere for all students and staff. Please review this guidance in preparation for future situations that may arise involving transgender and gender diverse students and staff and refer back to it when needed. If issues arise that are not addressed within this administrative procedure or more information and support is desired, please contact the superintendent or superintendent designee for assistance.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. The school district provides equal educational opportunity for all students and does not unlawfully discriminate on the basis of sex or sexual orientation. No student will be excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, or otherwise subjected to discrimination under any educational program or activity operated by the school district on the basis of sex or sexual orientation.
B. It is the responsibility of every school district employee to comply with the administrative procedure.
C. The school board has designated the Executive Director of Human Resources as its Title
IX coordinator. This employee coordinates the school district's efforts to comply with and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX.
III. PROCESS
The superintendent is directed to develop administrative procedures for Gender Identity for the
School District that meet the state and federal requirements established in law or rule.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 121A.04 (Athletic Programs; Sex Discrimination)
Draft
Minn. Stat. Ch. 363A (Minnesota Human Rights Act) 20 U.S.C. §§
1681-1688 (Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972) 34 C.F.R. Part 106
(Implementing Regulations of Title IX)
20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99 (Federal Educational Rights and Privacy
Act)
Cross References: RAS Equity Policy 102.1