Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

LM RoBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting

*"Approved May 6, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, April 15, 2024, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: https://www,rdale, org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Vento moved to accept the agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Sharing the Success
A. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)/Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI) Research Experience
Presented by: Tony Patterson - Assistant Director of Achievement and Integration; David Kek, Jessica
Stewart-Robinson, and Charles Vickers - Robbinsdale Equity Allies, Culture and Climate Specialists; and
Student Participants
20 Students did the coursework in preparation for this annual trip, which took them to Louisiana and Texas from March 24-29, 2024. Four students shared their experiences and highlights.

Interim Superintendent Report

Interim Superintendent Voight reported the following:

RAS celebrates the 50th Anniversary of our Early Childhood Family Education program. RAS was one of six pilot program sites in 1974, which is serving over 250 families this year. Emilie Levinson, Director of Early Learning recognized Parent Educators Geraldine Fisher and Nicki Murphy - who each briefly spoke. Parent Nicole Isaacson shared how important the program has been in raising her six children.

Operations

A. Action: School Resource Officer (SRO) Contracts for SY24
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: 2024-2025 School Board Meeting Schedule
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Action: Resolution Accepting March 224 Donations in the amount of $22,445.44
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Non-Action: FY24 Mid-Year Budget Revisions
Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance reviewed the FY24 mid-year budget revisions, and recommended they move to action for final vote at the Business Meeting on May 6, 2024.

E. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Update
The next meeting of the Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee is tentatively scheduled for Monday, April 22
at 4:30 p.m. Director Holmes summarized the work of the committee over the past year within nine meetings, and thanked Interim Superintendent Voight for providing the information needed to get things done. She also noted that Bo Powell, Director of Security, is working on a spring student summit.

F. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee Update

The Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee provided an update from their meeting on
April 10, 2024, which noted a timeline for the transportation request for proposals (RFP) will be finalized the week of May 12, to share with the Board in their next update on May 20, 2024.

G. Governance Policy Manual Task Force Update
Chair Bowman and Clerk Evans-Becker noted that they would be coming to the Board with assignments to assist in this work soon.

H. Policy Committee Update
Governance Policy Committee will be bringing the following policies for Non-Action at the May 6, 2024
Business Meeting:
e 103: Complaints - Students, Employees, Parents, Other Persons e 526: Hazing Prohibition e 529: Staff Notification of Violent Behavior by Students e 598: Early Entrance to Kindergarten

|. Student Achievement Update - R Pathways
Dr. Frank Herman, Director of College and Career Pathways brought several students to speak about their own experiences in the R Pathways program. Each of them shared the course/program they are participating in, and how it benefits their futures.

J. Human Resources (HR) Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of HR, provided an update on staffing and recruitment for summer programs.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Chair Bowman facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Four individuals spoke and two others submitted in regard to: the impact of staffing cuts at School of Engineering and Arts (SEA), the importance of continued funding for Fine Arts programs, budget concerns, and music and Fine Arts Committee.

Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at 8:50 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

sine LE xen both) ue. 5 Le GOLA

Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, ISD 281