Agenda Item: 3
School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
Business Meeting - March 18, 2024
Arts Showcase/Sharing the Success
AGENDA SECTION:
3.B. Sharing the Success: Robbinsdale Middle School (RMS)
ITEM:
Destination Imagination Team
Cedric Fuller, Principal of RMS
PRESENTED BY:
Rachel Buffington, Destination Imagination Coach
Student Participants
Mr. Fuller will introduce Rachel Buffington - Destination Imagination (DI) Coach, who will introduce the students. The student participants will share information about their experience in the 2024 DI Affiliate Tournament - Engineering Challenge. The team has qualified to advance to the Global Finals in Kansas City, MO at the end of May.
DI is an educational nonprofit that prepares children for a future that is rapidly evolving.
DI does this through a project-based learning experience that applies the creative process across seven different challenge types: Technical, Scientific, Engineering, Fine Arts,
Improvisational, Service Learning, and Early Learning - allowing pre-K through university-level students to acquire and practice the skills needed to thrive in school, future careers, and beyond.
RMS (with the addition of a FAIR Pilgrim Lane 5th grader) recently had a team of four compete at the MN tournament - choosing to compete in the Engineering Challenge, described below:
It's a bird, it's a plane... no... it's a beanbag! Who can predict how far the beanbag will fly or where it will come to rest? In this seasons Engineering Challenge, you will test your accuracy as you launch beanbags using a launching device and tell a story about what happens when things do not go exactly as planned
● Design and build a modular device that will be assembled and then tested in two different configurations during the Presentation
● Complete launch tests to test how far and how accurately your modular device can launch a beanbag in each configuration
● Transform the modular device from one configuration to the other
● Create and present a story in which everything is going according to plan until a catalyst occurs
● Create and present two Team Choice Elements that show off the team's interests, skills, areas of strength, and talents
After two months of learning about engineering while also discovering how to be a part of a team, we are proud to say the team earned first place in the Middle School Engineering division! The Team was invited to the Global Tournament, but declined due to challenges with funding. They look forward to trying again next year!