ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved March 4, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, February 20, 2024, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: https://www,rdale.orag/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Vento moved to accept the agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Sharing the Success: Coding Program at Noble Elementary

Michael Rieckenberg, Principal of Noble Elementary, introduced Chris Porter, Computer Science Teacher. Ms. Porter talked about the Computer Science classes at Noble, providing all students preparation for digital literacy, problem-solving skills, creativity and innovation. A few Noble students were in attendance to answer questions, as

well.

Arts Showcase: District High School Musicals

Interim Superintendent Voight highlighted the musicals now showing at both high schools. "How to Succeed in
Business without Really Trying," under the direction of Gretchen Wurzer-Palm at Cooper High School and "The
Addams Family," under the direction of Jenny Lovitt at Armstrong High School.

Interim Superintendent's Report

Interim Superintendent Voight noted three district teachers have been nominated for the 2024 Minnesota Teacher of the Year Award: Chad Olsen - English Teacher at Robbinsdale Academy - Highview, Jenny Peterson - Transition
Center Teacher at Crystal Learning Center, and Gretchen Wurzer-Palm - Dance and Theater Teacher at Cooper High
School. We are proud of them! They are among 159 nominees statewide, with the winner to be announced on May 5,
2024.

Interschool Council Meetings (ISC) are set to begin again on Thursday, March 7 and will be held via Zoom. ISC
representatives are liaisons between district administration, schools and building parent groups.

Interim Superintendent Voight recognized members of the Board for School Board Recognition Month with certificates of appreciation.

Operations

A. Action: Resolution Accepting January 2024 Donations in the amount of $19,370.83
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Non-Action: Operating Referendum Resolution and Capital Projects Levy
The following vendors presented in regard to the Operating Referendum Resolution and the Capital Projects
Levy: Virginia Verbrugge our Assistant Director of Finance presented on behalf of Michael Hart, Director -
Public Finance with PMA Securities, LLC; Peter Leatherman, Managing Partner of The Morris Leatherman
Company; and Jeff Dehler - APR, President and Founder of Dehler PR. The presenters responded to questions after all completed their presentations.

C. Non-Action: Application for Athletic Cooperative between Armstrong High School (AHS) and Avalon Charter
School for Boys Tennis
Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities brought this application forward, noting it would help the AHS tennis team with another member, while allowing the Avalon

Charter School's student (a district resident) the opportunity to play tennis while attending a virtual school outside of the district. It will be brought to action for a School Board vote at the March 4, 2024 Business
Meeting.

D. Government Policy Manual Task Force Update
Chair Bowman and Clerk Evans-Becker noted that the next meeting will be held on Thursday, February 29 at
9:00 a.m. at the Education Service Center (ESC). Task Force members are working to bring the information together to bring to an upcoming Work Session, before which it will be assigned to the Board for review prior to the Work Session.

E. Policy Update
Director Vento noted that the Board would be discussing Policy 506 - Student Disclipline, Policy 606 -
Selection of Curricula and Instructional Materials, and Policy 606.1 - Library Materials at the Work Session this evening, to receive feedback prior to bringing them for Non-Action at the Business Meeting on March 4,
2024.

F. School Safety Update
Vice Chair Holmes noted that the next meeting of the Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Meeting will be held on Wednesday, February 28, 2024 at 4:30 p.m. at the ESC to work on the communications piece promised to stakeholders in the fall. Budget survey results released today showed school safety as #1 priority at 59% by students, #2 priority at 66% by families and #3 priority at 55% by staff.

G. Student Achievement Update
This update will be reviewed at the March 4, 2024 Business Meeting.

H. Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Update
Members of the Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee will be meeting again on
Monday, March 4, 2024 at 4:45 p.m. at the ESC, prior to the Business Meeting.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Holmes. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Evans-Becker facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Six individuals spoke in regard to: AFSCME contract negotiations going to mediation - requesting fair wages and insurance contribution, school improvement, early entrance to kindergarten for fall of 2024 - her student was denied, and lack of trust for RAS without transparency

Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at 8:54 p.m..

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

sioneteYcde Chant Liber Date: 5/4/2024)

Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, ISD 281