EXTRACT OF MINUTES OF MEETING
OF SCHOOL BOARD
OF INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 281
(ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS)
STATE OF MINNESOTA

HELD: June 17, 2024

Pursuant to due call and notice thereof, a regular meeting of the School Board of
Independent School District No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools), State of Minnesota, was held in the School District on June 17, 2024, at 7:00 o'clock p.m., for the purpose, in part of

approving the following resolution to renew an expiring referendum.
The following members were present:
and the following were absent:

Member _Eyvanio- Becker" introduced the following resolution and

moved its adoption:

Resolution Relating to Renewal of an Expiring Referendum

WHEREAS, Minnesota Statutes 126C.17, Subd. 9b, allows the School Board to renew an expiring referendum.

WHEREAS, Minnesota Statutes 126C.17, Subd. 9b, sets forth the following requirements to renew an expiring referendum:

1) The per pupil amount of the referendum is the same as the amount expiring, or for an expiring referendum that was adjusted annually by the rate of inflation, the same as the per-pupil amount of the expiring referendum, adjusted annually for inflation in the same manner as if the expiring referendum had continued;

2) the term of the renewed referendum is no longer than the initial term approved by the voters;

3) the school board has held a meeting and allowed public testimony on the proposed renewal; and

4) the expiring referendum has not been previously renewed under Minnesota Statutes
126C17, Subd. 9b.

WHEREAS, the expiring referendum is within the last two fiscal years of the term of the referendum.

BE IT RESOLVED by the School Board of Independent School District No. 281, State of
Minnesota, as follows:

The Board hereby determines and declares that it is necessary and expedient for the school district to extend and renew the general education revenue provided by an expiring referendum passed by the voters of the school district on November 4, 2014. This referendum was passed with an amount of $1,418.94 per adjusted pupil unit and for a term of 10 years beginning with taxes payable in 2016. The expiring referendum included an inflationary adjustment provision as provided by Minnesota Statute 126C.17.

The term of the renewed referendum will be 10 years beginning taxes payable in 2026.
The clerk is authorized to send this adopted resolution, no later than September 1 of the calendar year in which this resolution was adopted, to the commissioner of the education and to the county

auditor of each county in which the school district is located in whole or in part.

This resolution becomes effective 60 days after adoption.

. . : . hai
The motion for the adoption of the foregoing resolution was duly seconded by Sotiman

and upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: .
Directors: Basectl, Bowman, Bros, Evans - Becker, Long , Ana Vento

and the following voted against the same: nov) @ a
Divector Holmes abestainea From voting -

whereupon said resolution was declared duly passed and adopted.

STATE OF MINNESOTA _ )
) Ss
COUNTY OF HENNEPIN )

I, the undersigned, being the duly qualified and acting Clerk of Independent School
District No. 281 (Robbinsdale Area Schools), State of Minnesota, hereby certify that the attached and foregoing is a full, true and correct transcript of the minutes of a meeting of the school board of said school district duly called and held on the date therein indicated, so far as such minutes relate to the resolution to renew an expiring referendum of said school district, and that the resolution included therein is a full, true and correct copy of the original thereof.

WITNESS MY HAND officially as such clerk this 17" day of June, 2024

fo
Beh. Exot Lathe

a
Clerk
Independent School District No. 281
(Robbinsdale Area Schools), Hennepin County, Minnesota