A GUIDE TO
Student Support and Behavior
The mission of Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.
Updated 8/28/24

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section 4: Expectations for riding the
Section 1: Creating and maintaining a bus positive school climate
Letter to our community ············································· 3 Rules at the bus stop ······················································ 12
Purpose of this guide···················································· 4 Rules on the bus ······························································· 12
What is "school climate"? ············································ 4
How we create a positive school climate ··············· 4-5
Section 5: Levels of misbehavior and
Land Acknowledgement············································· 4
response
Glossary of terms related to school discipline ········ 13
Section 2: Prevention and support
A progressive approach to correcting behavior··············································································· 13
PREVENTION Determining the disciplinary response ···················· 13
Multi-Tiered System of Supports ······························ 6 Discipline guidance for Early Learning ····················· 14
Early identification and screening ··························· 7 Discipline for students in kindergarten
Say Something Anonymous Reporting through third grade ························································ 14
System and Gaggle ······················································· 7 Levels of corrective strategies for all grades ··········· 14
Risk assessment ····························································· 7 Behavior violations and response levels ··················· 17
Threat assessment························································· 7
Cell phone use in our schools ···································· 7
Section 6: Information and resources
SUPPORT
Mental health supports in schools ··························· 8
How to reach us ································································ 24
Family and Community Engagement
Links to additional information ··································· 25
(FACE) team ····································································· 8
State testing······································································· 26
Climate and culture specialists ································· 8
Student-Family Use Agreement: Digital
Full service community schools ································ 8
Devices················································································· 29
Restorative practices ···················································· 8
School Board policies and procedures ····················· 29
Non-exclusionary discipline ······································· 9
Guide to addressing parent and community
Help for bullying ····························································· 9
concerns ·············································································· 30
Help for those experiencing homelessness ·········· 9
Emergency response guide ········································· 31
Title IX················································································· 9
FERPA ················································································ 10
To access the
External support resources········································· 10
information in this guide from a device,
Section 3: Responses to disciplinary scan this QR code or action visit this link:
Complaints about discipline ······································ 11
bit.ly/3M8PWm0
Collaborative conversations ······································· 11
2

Section 1: Creating and maintaining a positive school climate
Letter to our community
Dear Robbinsdale Area Schools students, families and staff,
At Robbinsdale Area Schools (Rdale), our goal is to create a safe and supportive learning environment that allows each student to thrive academically, socially, and emotionally. Each year, the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools adopts guidelines for teaching and implementing expected behaviors.
For us to deliver the best possible education to our students, we all have responsibilities to understand and uphold. In Rdale we believe positive relationships are critical for achieving our desired outcomes. Whether you're a student, a family member, or a staff member, this guide delineates these responsibilities in detail. I urge you to devote your attention to it.
Our district places the highest possible priority on keeping students and staff members safe in our buildings. To do this, we count on everyone in our schools to
Dr. Teri Staloch do three important things:
• Be safe
• Be engaged
• Be responsible
We know there will be times when our students do not observe these core values. Staff members take various actions in these cases, depending on what has occurred. Our goal is not to punish students, but to teach them. Focusing on teaching replacement behaviors rather than punitive measures is more constructive but also aligns with fostering growth and development.
By emphasizing the preservation of integrity and relationships, we are creating an environment where students feel supported in their journey toward understanding. Our (Re)Discover Rdale Strategic Plan is committed to Student
Engagement and Wellness, one of the plan's four key themes.
Our approach is designed to promote empathy, understanding, and long-term positive change.
Sincerely,
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
3

Just as school climate is made up of many factors, it
Purpose of this guide takes many different kinds of resources to create a
This guide is for students, families and staff. The first healthy school climate. These include guiding four sections, written primarily for students and philosophies, staffing and programs that seek to create families, contain information about the approach we and maintain calm and peaceful environments in our take to school climate in Robbinsdale Area Schools.
schools.
Perhaps most important, the second section -
Prevention and Support - details our resources for
For American Indian students and others, smudging is creating schools that strive to support every person:
a practice that leads to a positive school climate in whoever they are, wherever they're from.
culturally affirming spaces including school buildings.
SF 2998, introduced to the Minnesota legislature in
The third section (Responses to Disciplinary Action)
March 2024, states, "An American Indian student may helps families understand the actions they can take if carry a medicine pouch containing loose tobacco their student receives disciplinary action, and the fourth intended as observance of traditional spiritual or section details Expectations for Riding the Bus for cultural practices." More pertinent to Rdale, see also students and their families.
Board Policy 419, Item IV.
While section five is primarily for the use of school
Undergirding everything we do in our schools is the administrators in determining steps to take to respond
Multi-Tiered System of Supports, which we detail on to infractions in discipline, this can also be a useful page 6.
reference for families if their student receives discipline. The final section includes a variety of
How we create a positive school resources you may want to reference throughout the climate year.
Everyone has responsibilities in a safe and respectful school, beginning with the adults: all staff who work in
What is "school climate"?
the building, and the extended family members who
When we talk about school climate, we mean a host of prepare and support students to attend it. Students, conditions that affect how both young people and too, bear their share of responsibility: they need to adults feel in each school building. Are you welcomed come to school, listen, treat adults and each other with and safe in the building? Do staff members know each kindness, and do their best to learn.
student's name? Do you see your culture or ethnicity reflected in school decor? Do you feel comfortable
All members of the school community also have rights.
asking for help? Are you confident your student will be treated with fairness? Do students receive respectful
The table on the next page lists some of the rights and lessons on social and emotional learning?
responsibilities Rdale sets out for students, their parents or guardians, and our staff.
Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people. We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land. We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.
4

How we create a positive school climate
Robbinsdale Area
Students Parents/Guardians
Schools Staff
Believe that you have the capacity to Believe your student has the capacity Believe students are capable of being be your best self and achieve your to be their best self and achieve their their best selves and achieving their hopes and dreams. hopes and dreams. hopes and dreams, and that staff have the capacity to support students.
Build and maintain positive Build and maintain a positive Build and maintain positive relationships with all staff and other relationship with staff at the school. relationships with all students and students. their families.
Respect yourself, the learning Respect and support the learning Develop a learning community and a environment, other students, their environment and emphasize the respectful environment that supports parents/guardians, families and all importance of being prepared for social-emotional and academic staff. school. success.
Ask for and accept help when you Ask for help when you need Regularly communicate with need assistance. assistance. Advocate for your child students and families. Support them through regular communication with when they ask for assistance.
school staff.
Go to school every day on time, ready Make sure your student arrives at Create a welcoming environment.
to learn and give your best effort. school every day on time and Have high expectations for all prepared to learn. students.
Learn and follow school expectations Learn, and speak with your student Teach, model and reinforce school and procedures. about the expectations and expectations and procedures. Follow procedures at their school. the school-wide discipline plan.
Use technology and equipment in a Review the technology agreement Tailor instruction for student voice responsible way. with your student. and choice within a technology-rich learning environment.
Personalize your learning by bringing Encourage your student's passion to Provide personalized, engaging and your creativity to your assignments. learn and grow around their own academically appropriate instruction, goals for college, articulated skilled including culturally-responsive trades and career. teaching which represents and invites students' identities.
Conduct yourself in a manner to Contact your student's school if you Create and monitor safe conditions in ensure your safety and the safety of observe or are aware of potentially the school environment.
others. unsafe activities or conditions.
Rdale prohibits harassment, violence, discrimination and bullying in all forms, including on the basis of a person's actual or perceived race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex/gender (including harassment based on gender identity and expression), marital status, disability, status with regard to public assistance, sexual orientation, age, family care leave status or veteran status.
5

Section 2: Prevention and support
Rdale supports students in many ways, including staffing and programs designed to make our schools calm, safe environments for learning. These are efforts to prevent difficulties before they arise. Even so, our best efforts at prevention aren't enough. Sometimes students and families need extra support, whether for basic needs or in response to specific issues that take place at school. Rdale uses many supportive strategies and programs to assist students and families.
expect in every school, academically and personally. If
Prevention a student requires more help to learn or behave - or if
Multi-Tiered System of Supports they need more academic challenge than the Tier 1
curriculum provides - they might receive Tier 2
Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS) is a way of interventions targeted to their specific needs. Tier 3
thinking about what students need - academically, works the same way.
socially, and through every other aspect of school. It's important to this guide because MTSS is the
Most students succeed within Tier 1. The principles of foundation for how we think about everything that
MTSS help us provide additional support to those who happens in our classrooms.
need it. MTSS reflects our approach to support, behavior and discipline.
In MTSS, we talk about "tiers." Tier 1 is the core of our program: what every student experiences and can
6

Early identification and screening Risk assessment
Risk assessment is a process of estimating the
Early Childhood Screening is a way to check in on your likelihood for a person to attempt or die by suicide. If a child's development to help identify specific needs tip comes into the Say Something Anonymous that may affect learning, growth, and development.
Reporting System, or if school staff hear or see
The screening is conducted by trained staff and covers something that suggests potential acts of self harm, the following areas:
they should quickly inform mental health staff to
• Fine and gross motor skills conduct a risk assessment. Threats can include:
ideation ("I just want to die"); direct threats ("I'm going
• Speech and language development to kill myself"); concerns contained in student work
• Cognitive and social development
(journaling about suicide or death in a way that is
• Vision and hearing concerning); or behavior.
• Height and weight
Mental health staff in our district, professionals such as
• Immunizations social workers, school psychologists, and counselors -
are trained to conduct such assessments, and then to
Offered free by Rdale's Early Learning division, take appropriate action.
screening is an easy way to make sure your student is ready for school. Screening is preferred at age 3-1/2, but
Threat assessment can be done anytime between 3 and 5 years old. Make
In recent years and particularly since the pandemic, an appointment online at rdale.ce.eleyo.com, or call
Rdale and other public school districts have
763-504-4180.
experienced an increase in threats, especially via social media. Most of these threats are not credible, but we
Say Something Anonymous Reporting investigate all of them. Typically, building
System and Gaggle administrators conduct threat assessments.
The safety and well-being of our students and staff is
Depending on the nature of the threat, they may seek our top priority - and requires a proactive approach to assistance from district-level support staff.
violence prevention. That is why Rdale now partners
Threat assessment techniques and principles help our with Sandy Hook Promise and its Say Something staff members determine how viable a threat is and
Anonymous Reporting System to Rdale.
decide how to respond. Violence prevention is always
The Say Something Anonymous Reporting System is the first goal of threat assessment. If a student is found designed specifically for use by students and staff in to have made a threat, it is important to determine grades 6-12 - the grades more likely to observe why they did so, and to address whatever conflict or concerning behavior. Students in earlier grades, as well problem led to the threat.
as staff, family or community members, can contact their school principal or another trusted adult if they
Cell phone use in our schools wish to report concerns.
To promote the most positive and productive learning environment for our students and staff - and to align
The Say Something Anonymous Reporting System is a with the themes and objectives of the (Re)Discover research-based violence prevention program offered
Rdale Strategic Plan - Rdale has updated policies and by Sandy Hook Promise, a national nonprofit procedures regarding the use of devices in classrooms.
organization. It teaches the warning signs of potential
In broad terms, the new rules regarding cell phone use violence or self-harm and provides students and staff are as follows:
with secure ways to share safety concerns through a mobile app, website, or phone call.
• In grades K-8, we expect cell phones to be put
"away for the day." This includes all electronic
Rdale also uses Gaggle, software that stops tragedies communication devices such as smart watches, with real-time content analysis of student activity on pens, glasses, earbuds, etc. If brought to school, school-provided devices and around-the-clock alerts.
these devices must be stored in a backpack or locker and remain out of sight and not in use during the school day.
7

necessary resources. Additionally, school climate and
• In grades 9-12, phones must be put away culture specialists are involved in the school's during instructional time. They can be used leadership groups.
during passing periods and lunch.
Contacting students during the school day
Full service community schools
We understand there will be times when a parent/
guardian needs to contact their student during the Research and experience tell us that young people need a wide range of opportunities and support to be school day. When this is the case, please email your successful. All children, regardless of their economic, student's teacher or call the main office of your racial, or family circumstances, deserve access to an student's building.
array of opportunities. Full service community schools
Students who need to contact a parent/guardian support all aspects of students' lives to help them should discuss this with their teacher. Should a succeed academically.
student become ill, the health office staff will contact
Rdale has three full service community schools:
the parent/guardian.
Medical exemption
• Cooper High School
Please note that students who require devices for
8230 47th Ave. N.
medical reasons (diabetes, epilepsy, hearing
New Hope, MN 55428
impairment) may be eligible for an exemption with a
• Robbinsdale Middle School letter from a medical provider. Please contact your
3730 Toledo Ave. N.
school's licensed school nurse to discuss eligibility.
Robbinsdale, MN 55422
Support
• Sandburg Learning Center
(Sandburg Middle School and Robbinsdale
Mental health supports in schools
Academy)
2400 Sandburg Lane
Rdale employs school psychologists, school counselors,
Golden Valley, MN 55427
and school social workers who help students with mental health and other areas. The district also
Full service community schools promote academic contracts with school based mental therapists.
excellence by offering an array of health and social services to students, families and community. Schools
Family and Community Engagement become community hubs that help meet the diverse
(FACE) team needs of students, their families and the neighborhood.
The district-wide FACE team works to assist students and families in navigating and feeling more
Full service community schools may not be able to comfortable within their schools. For the district, they serve all students at all schools. Please check with your organize family engagement events and provide school social worker or school nurse for referrals to support for enrollment, transportation, technology, assistance with food, clothing, housing, etc.
and more. FACE team members also help support parents, provide interpretation, and connect families
Restorative practices with community resources.
Restorative practices strengthen school climate by developing a restorative mindset in the adults,
Climate and culture specialists building community, and responding to harm. Rdale
Climate and culture specialists collaborate with school uses restorative practices to increase student staff and the administrative team to create a positive engagement and build academic and social school environment that supports academic success achievement. Restorative practices allow a school and a sense of belonging. They help to build and community to build relationships, problem solve, sustain strong relationships between school staff and repair harm, and learn. Practices include collaborative families by encouraging communication between negotiation, circle process, peer mediation, conflict teachers and parents/guardians and providing resolution, and formal restorative conferencing. In this
8

approach, relationships are the most important way
Help for bullying we learn about the world and ourselves.
Rdale is committed to creating an inclusive and
A restorative practice school and community believes:
welcoming climate in all of its schools, where every student feels comfortable, safe and ready to learn.
• Everyone in the school community is good, wise and powerful
If you or someone you know has experienced harassment, violence, discrimination or bullying at
• We are all connected to one another school or at any school-related event for any reason, you may request to have the incident(s) investigated
• All of us want to be in good, healthy by the District.
relationships with others
To report an incident or pattern of bullying, use the
• We all have talents and gifts we bring to
Bullying Incident Form.
school
• It takes time, habits, and support to build and
Help for those experiencing maintain positive relationships homelessness
In our schools, we may use restorative practices to
Rdale receives funding to assist students and their address conflicts between students, and between families who may be experiencing homelessness. To students and staff, between family members and staff.
find out more, check with your school social worker.
Non-exclusionary discipline
Title IX
Sending our students away from school is often the
Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 ("Title opposite of what they need. With a focus on non-
IX"), 20 U.S.C. §1681 et seq., is a Federal civil rights law exclusionary discipline, we try everything we can to that prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in keep students in school, even when they break the education programs and activities. Schools receiving rules. This means that expulsion is a last resort.
any Federal funds must comply with Title IX. See Board
Policy No. 522 - Student Gender or Sexual Orientation
The State of Minnesota defines non-exclusionary
Nondiscrimination.
discipline as "policies and practices that are alternatives to dismissing a pupil from school,
If you have a concern that might be addressed by Title including but not limited to evidence-based positive
IX, contact your school's administrators.
behavior interventions and supports, social and emotional services, school-linked mental health services, counseling services, social work services, academic screening for Title 1 services or reading interventions, and alternative education services."
Restorative practice is a way of working with conflict that puts the focus on repairing the harm that has been done. It is an approach to conflict resolution that includes all of the parties involved.
- Anti-Bullying Alliance
9

FERPA External support resources
FERPA stands for Family Educational Rights and
Families in need of immediate support outside of
Privacy Act (FERPA) (20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99).
school hours can refer to our Tools for Families on the
This is a Federal law that protects the privacy of district website. Scroll down to Social-Emotional/
student education records. The law applies to all
Mental Health Resources for contact information for schools that receive funds under an applicable community crisis services and more.
program of the U.S. Department of Education.
FERPA affords parents the right to have access to their children's education records, the right to seek to have the records amended, and the right to have some control over the disclosure of personally identifiable information from the education records. These rights transfer to the student when he or she reaches the age of 18 or attends a school beyond the high school level.
10

Section 3: Responses to disciplinary action
Family members may sometimes disagree with disciplinary action taken by school or district staff. If this happens, options are available.
The discipline complaint procedure form (also in
Complaints about discipline
Spanish and Somali) can be found on the district's
State law now allows students, parents/guardians, or website under School Board Policies, and the link for staff to file a formal complaint if they think school
506 Policy: Student Discipline.
discipline has been implemented inappropriately or discriminately.
Collaborative conversations
When a student who chronically violates school rules
Specifically, the Robbinsdale Area Schools discipline disrupts the learning of students (with substantial complaint procedure form allows students, parents/
disruptions, harmful physical contact, fights, and/or guardians, or staff to seek corrective action if they repeated behaviors that persist despite MTSS
believe a student's discipline falls outside of the interventions), that student may be referred for a district's 506 Policy: Student Discipline, the Minnesota
Collaborative Conversation. These involve the
Pupil Fair Dismissal Act, or if they believe it was based on discrimination. The complaint procedure cannot be Executive Director of Student Services, Assistant used as an appeal to a suspension. Superintendent, school principal or assistant principal, parent(s), and student.
Complaint forms must be completed within three days of the alleged disciplinary action and no more than 10
school days following an expulsion/exclusion decision.
From there, the next steps include:
• A school or district investigation will occur within three school days of receiving the complaint.
• A district representative will reach out to the person making the complaint.
• Issuance of findings and conclusions will be shared.
• A corrective action plan will be created and applied if the discipline policy has not been implemented appropriately or is being discriminately applied.
Rdale is committed to creating an inclusive and welcoming climate in all of its schools, where every student feels comfortable, safe and ready to learn.
11

Section 4: Expectations for riding the bus
Riding the school bus is a privilege, not a right. For students who are eligible to ride the bus, our goal is to transport you to and from school as safely as possible. While students are riding a school bus, Rdale expects the same behavior as when students are on any other on school property or at school activities, functions or events.
Transportation expectations and consequences are based on the Board Policy 709: Student Transportation and are mandated by state statute. Safety rules are posted on every bus. All school rules are in effect while a student is riding the bus or at the bus stop. Students who do not follow the rules will receive consequences and may lose their bus privileges as a result of progressive discipline.
School bus drivers report school bus/bus stop misconduct to the district's transportation personnel. Serious misconduct is reported to the Department of Public Safety and may be reported to local law enforcement.
Rules at the bus stop Rules on the bus
• Get to your bus stop five minutes before your • Immediately follow the directions of the driver.
scheduled pick up time. The school bus driver will
• Sit in your seat facing forward.
not wait for late students.
• Talk quietly and use appropriate language.
• Respect the property of others while waiting at your bus stop.
• Keep all parts of your body inside the bus.
• Keep your arms, legs and belongings to yourself.
• Keep your arms, legs and belongings to yourself.
• Use appropriate language.
• No fighting, harassment, intimidation or horseplay.
• Stay away from the street, road or highway when waiting for the bus.
• Do not throw any object.
• Wait until the bus stops before approaching the
• No eating, drinking, or use of alcohol, tobacco or bus.
drugs.
• After getting off the bus, move away from the bus.
• Do not bring any weapons or dangerous objects on the school bus.
• If you must cross the street, always cross in front of the bus where the driver can see you. Wait for
• Do not damage the school bus.
the driver to signal to you before crossing the street.
• No fighting, harassment, intimidation or horseplay.
• No use of alcohol, tobacco or drugs.
Understanding discipline as a
"teachable moment" is fundamental to a positive approach.
12

Section 5: Levels of misbehavior and response
• Understand why the behavior is unacceptable
Glossary of terms related to school and the harm it has caused.
discipline
• Understand what they could have done
Dismissal: When students lose access to the current differently in the same situation.
educational program through suspension, expulsion, or exclusion for less than one day. Does not include
• Take responsibility for their actions.
removal from class.
• Learn strategies and skills to use in the future.
Exclusion: An action taken by the school board to
• Model and practice replacement strategies.
prevent enrollment or re-enrollment of a student for a period that shall not extend beyond the school year.
• Understand the progression of consequences with recurring behavior.
Expulsion: A school board action to prohibit an enrolled student from further attendance for up to 12
Appropriate disciplinary responses:
months from the date the student is expelled.
• Emphasize prevention and effective
Investigation: Investigations are conducted by intervention and resiliency.
building administration prior to consequences.
Students may be suspended while an investigation is
• Prevent disruption to students' education.
occurring. The district issues a Tennessen Warning
• Promote a positive school climate.
Notice when an investigation takes place.
Readmission Plan: A readmission plan is required for
Rdale staff make every reasonable effort to address students suspended from school. This is a critical step student behavior through school-based, nonin helping students connect back to the school exclusionary interventions such as restorative community.
practices.
Removal from Class: Any actions taken by a teacher,
Sometimes inappropriate behavior or rule violations principal, or other school district employee to prohibit reflect more serious problems that students are a student from attending a class or activity period for a experiencing. It is important for school personnel to be period of time not to exceed five (5) days. Students on sensitive to issues that may influence the behavior of an IEP can not be removed from class.
students and respond in a manner that is most supportive of their needs.
Suspension: Removal of a student from school for one day or more. Does not apply to dismissal for less than one school day, except as provided under federal law
Determining the disciplinary response for a student with a disability. See the Pupil Fair
School officials must consult this document when
Dismissal Act for more information.
determining disciplinary measures. In determining how best to address inappropriate behavior, it is
A progressive approach to correcting necessary to evaluate the totality of the circumstances behavior surrounding the behavior. The following must be considered prior to determining the appropriate
Understanding discipline as a "teachable moment" is disciplinary measures:
fundamental to a positive approach. The goal of progressive discipline is to prevent recurrence of
• The student's age, maturity, culture, and negative behavior by helping students learn from their developmental level.
mistakes. Essential to the implementation of
• The student's disciplinary record including the progressive discipline is assisting students who have nature of any prior misbehavior, the number of engaged in unacceptable behavior to:
prior instances of misbehavior, and the
13

disciplinary and guidance. intervention
• A student causes or is likely to cause serious measures applied for each.
physical harm to other students or staff.
• The nature, severity and scope of the behavior.
• The student's parent or guardian specifically consents to the use of recess detention.
• The circumstances/context in which the conduct occurred.
• For students receiving special education services, the student's individualized education
• The frequency and duration of the behavior.
program team has determined that
• The number of persons involved in the withholding recess is appropriate based on the behavior.
individualized needs of the student.
• The social-emotional status/needs of all
Levels of corrective strategies for all persons involved in the behavior.
grades
• The student's Behavior Intervention Plan (BIP),
School and district staff in Rdale hold students if applicable.
accountable for their behavior. Behavior violations are
• The student's Individualized Education grouped into five levels based on the severity of the
Program (IEP), BIP and/or 504
infraction.
Accommodation Plan, if applicable.
The table beginning on page 17 lists potential violations in alphabetic order, along with the level of
Discipline guidance for Early Learning the violation.
Rdale recognizes that students enter early learning
Whenever possible and appropriate, the response to programs with varying school experiences and from a misconduct begins with the lowest level of disciplinary variety of backgrounds.
response and includes appropriate support and
Early Learning students demonstrate a wide range of interventions.
developmentally appropriate behaviors and skills.
Below we describe potential supports and
Early Learning staff use relationships, supportive interventions at each level.
environments, proactive measures, positive reinforcement, and responsive strategies to guide and
Level 1 interventions are generally addressed by school teach expected student behavior. Children in Early staff members when a student has minimal or no prior
Learning programs may not be suspended or expelled infractions. The staff response is to teach and practice without approval by the Assistant Superintendent.
the expected behavior so students learn and demonstrate safe and respectful behaviors. Staff members are expected to use a variety of teaching
Discipline for students in kindergarten and management strategies.
through third grade
Choices to address student infractions:
Minnesota law (policy 506) prohibits disciplinary removals for students enrolled in kindergarten
• Restorative practices through grade 3. Exceptions to this are:
• Making amends to those harmed or offended
• Schools have exhausted all non-exclusionary
• Verbal correction resources and there continues to be an ongoing serious safety threat to the child or
• Providing a reflective activity others
• Re-teaching behavioral expectations
• Does not apply to dismissal of less than one
• Creating a behavior contract that includes day expected student behaviors and consequences for infractions and/or incentives
Minnesota law (Board Policy No. 506 AP: Student for demonstrating expected behavior
Discipline) prohibits disciplinary removals for students from recess. Exceptions to this are:
• School community service
14

Choices to address student infractions:
• Loss of privileges
• Restorative practices
• In-class time-out
• Making amends to those harmed or offended
• Removal from class to another supervised classroom (less than one hour)
• Verbal correction
• Mediation
• Providing a reflective activity
• Detention, during which the student
• Re-teaching behavioral expectations completes school work
• Creating a behavior contract that includes
• Alternative in-school educational expected student behaviors and programming, during which school work is consequences for infractions and/or incentives completed, for less than half a day for demonstrating expected behavior
• In-school suspension, during which school
• Parent/guardian notification work is completed, for more than half a day
• Parent/guardian conference
• Restitution
• Loss of privileges
Appropriate staff interventions may involve the parent/
• School community service guardian and other members of the school
• Monetary restitution community. Interventions may include:
• Consecutive day removal (up to five days) to
• Parent/guardian notification another supervised classroom during a
• Parent/guardian/teacher conference designated subject
• Parent/guardian accompanying student to
• Mediation school or class
• Detention, during which the student
• Requiring students to remove, adjust, or cover completes school work up clothing that violates student dress
• Alternative in-school educational requirements programming, during which school work is
• Conflict resolution completed, for less than half a day
• Mentoring program participation
• In-school suspension time, during which school work is completed, for more than half a
• Contract between teacher, student and day parent/guardian
• Referral to behavioral interventionist for
• Peer mediation tobacco/chemical infraction
• Referral
• Potential police notification
Repeated instances of a Level 1 violation may be
Repeated instances of a level 2 violation may be treated as a violation at a higher level only when treated as a violation at a higher level only when appropriate interventions have been attempted over a appropriate interventions have been attempted over a reasonable amount of time and documented in the reasonable amount of time and documented in the student's record.
student's record.
Level 2 violations will generally result in interventions
Level 3 violations will generally result in interventions and/or disciplinary responses that involve the school and/or disciplinary responses that involve the school administration. These actions aim to correct behavior administration. These actions aim to correct behavior by stressing the seriousness of the behavior while by stressing the seriousness of the behavior while keeping the student in school.
providing access to educational programming.
15

Choices to address student infractions: Choices to address student infractions:
• Restorative practices • Restorative practices
• Making amends to those harmed or offended • Out-of-school suspension (partial day and up to five days)
• Verbal correction
• Administrative transfer
• Providing a reflective activity
• Monetary restitution
• Re-teaching behavioral expectations
• Interim alternative educational placement
• Creating a behavior contract that includes expected student behaviors and • Referral to behavioral interventionist for consequences for infractions and/ or incentives tobacco/ chemical infraction for demonstrating expected behavior
• Potential police notification
• Parent/guardian notification
• Administrative hearing in lieu of expulsion
• Parent/guardian conference
• Expulsion referral
• Alternative in-school educational programming, during which school work is Level 5 violations require the principal to notify the completed, for less than half a day Office of Security and Emergency Management and make a referral for expulsion to the Superintendent or
• In-school suspension, during which school designee. Due to the severity of the behavior, police work is completed, for more than half a day notification has the potential to be used for all Level 5
• Monetary restitution infractions.
• Out-of-school suspension (partial day and up
Choices to address student infractions:
to five days)
• Restorative practices
• Potential police notification
• Out-of-school suspension (partial day and up
• Removal from classroom to five days)
• Referral to behavioral interventionist for
• Administrative transfer tobacco/ chemical infraction
• Monetary restitution
• Collaborative conversation meeting at District
Office
• Interim alternative educational placement
• Administrative review
• Referral to behavioral interventionist for tobacco/ chemical infraction
Repeated instances of a level 3 violation may be
• Potential police notification treated as a violation at a higher level only when appropriate interventions have been attempted over a • Administrative hearing in lieu of expulsion reasonable amount of time and documented in the
• Expulsion referral student's record.
Level 4 interventions may involve the removal of the student from the school environment because of the severity of the behavior. They may involve the placement of the student in a safe environment that provides additional structure to address behavior.
These interventions focus on maintaining the safety of the school community and ending self-destructive and/or dangerous behavior. Due to the severity of the behavior, police notification has the potential to be used for all Level 4 infractions.
16

Levels
Behavior violations and response levels
1 2 3 4 5
Arson
Students must obey fire safety laws and keep school property safe. Students must not plan and/or participate in malicious burning of property. The use of a combustible or
✓
flammable liquid is prohibited. Minn. Stat § 609.561 - 609.5632 (arson in 1st through 5th degrees)
Assault
Students must get help when needed to solve problems nonviolently. Students must not commit an act with intent to cause fear in another of immediate bodily harm or
✓
death, or intentionally inflict or attempt to inflict bodily harm upon another. Minn. Stat
§ 609.224
Bullying
Communication should be conducted with kindness. Bullying is intimidating, threatening, abusive or harming conduct that is objectively offensive and:
• There is an actual or perceived imbalance of power between the student engaging in prohibited conduct and the target of the behavior, and the conduct is repeated or forms a pattern; or
✓
• Action materially and substantially interferes with a student's educational opportunities or performance or ability to participate in school functions or activities or receive school benefits, services or privileges. This includes using technology or other electronic communication that disrupts students' learning or the school environment.
See Board Policy 514: Bullying Prohibition for more information.
Cheating
Students are expected to do their own work. Students must not use, submit or attempt to obtain data or answers dishonestly, or by deceit, collusion, or means other than those authorized by the teacher. Examples of acts of cheating/ plagiarism include any appropriation, literary theft, falsification, counterfeiting, piracy, fraud, or ✓
unsupervised possession of any federal-, state- or district-mandated tests. Plagiarism includes, but is not limited to, copying word for word from references such as books, magazines, research materials or the internet.
Chronic Tardiness (Grades 6-12)
Students are expected to follow school-wide schedule expectations and arrive on time to class. Students must not habitually arrive at class after the bell or signal that class
✓
has started.
Cyber Bullying
Cyberbullying is bullying - unwanted, repeated, aggressive, negative behavior - that takes place using digital devices like cell phones, tablets, and computers.
Cyberbullying can happen over email, through texting, on social media, while gaming, on instant messaging, and through photo sharing. Students are not to send, post or
✓
share negative, harmful, false, or mean content about anyone else. They may not post personal information, pictures, or videos designed to hurt or embarrass another person.
17

Levels
Behavior violations and response levels
1 2 3 4 5
Disruptive Behavior
Students are expected to follow school wide behavioral expectations and abide by classroom rules, routines and procedures. Students must not interrupt the learning of others or behave in a manner that causes disruption to the school environment. If a teacher or other school adult is prevented from starting an activity or lesson, or has to
✓
stop what they are doing to try to stop the student's behavior, the behavior is considered disruptive. For example, if a student causes a disruption in the classroom by talking, making noises, throwing objects, play-fighting, or otherwise distracting one or more classmates, the student is engaging in disruptive behavior.
Electronic Communication Devices
Electronic devices may be brought to school only in accordance with school policy.
Students must use communication devices according to their school's policy (a school
✓
may choose to develop a specific plan related to the authorized use of electronic devices). Electronic communication devices must be turned off during school hours unless allowed by school policy.
Extortion/Robbery
Students are expected to respect other people and their decisions. Students must accept "no" for an answer when making a request of another person. Extortion means getting money or a promise by using threat or force. Students must not make a
✓
person do anything he or she does not want to do by using threat or force. Students must not take another person's property. Students must not take or attempt to take from another person any property by force or threat of force.
Failure to Follow Directions
Students are expected to follow the instructions of school staff. School staff include administrators, teachers, educational assistants (EAs), secretaries, security personnel,
✓
custodians, bus drivers, lunchroom workers, school volunteers, etc. If students do not obey the instructions and/or directions given by school staff, the behavior may be considered disobedient.
False Fire Alarms or Bomb Reports/Tampering with Fire Alarm System
Students must obey laws regarding fire safety. Students must not set off a fire alarm at any time unless there is an emergency. Destroying or damaging a fire alarm is
✓
prohibited. Students must not falsely call or make a report to 911 or other emergency personnel.
Fighting
Conflicts must be resolved peacefully. Students must not physically fight with another
✓
person. Fighting involves the exchange of mutual physical contact, e.g., shoving, kicking, hair pulling, biting and hitting, with or without injury (i.e., mutual combat).
Fraud/False Identification
Students are expected to be honest. Students must not sign or give a name other than
✓
their own.
Gambling
Students should choose games which align with the expected behaviors in the Guide to Student Support and Behavior. Students must not play games of cards, chance or
✓
dice for money or other items, except if such games are played at a school-sponsored activity for educational purposes.
18

Levels
Behavior violations and response levels
1 2 3 4 5
Group Violence
Students should interact in a positive manner with their peers. Students must not plan,
✓
instigate or participate with another or others, in an incident of group violence.
Harassment
All communication in the school is to be conducted with kindness. Students must not use words (written, verbal, electronic), gestures, photographic images, drawings, or any
✓
form of communication to harass another person. This includes harassment based on race, gender, religious beliefs, nationality, disability or sexual orientation. See Board
Policy 413: Harassment and Violence for more detailed information.
Harmful Physical Contact
Students must seek help to solve problems nonviolently. Students must not engage in
✓
physically aggressive behavior that creates a substantial risk or results in injury.
Hazing
Students should interact safely with peers. Hazing is committing an act or coercing a student into committing an act that creates a substantial risk of harm in order for the
✓
student to be initiated into or affiliated with a school or school group. See Board Policy
526: Hazing Prohibition for a more detailed definition and information.
Inappropriate Communication
Students are expected to speak considerately to others. Examples of inappropriate
✓
communication include put-downs, swearing, threatening, making fun of, or negatively talking about a person or their family.
Inappropriate Use of Electronic Technology
Students are expected to use technology and other resources in a safe and responsible manner. Students must not make, produce or distribute videos, images, sound recording or other mediums that show behavior prohibited by the Guide to Student
Support and Behavior on school property or at school events, including using schoolowned or personal electronic devices (e.g., laptops, Chromebooks, iPads, tablets, e-
✓
readers, cell phones or video or still cameras). Depictions of such conduct on social networking sites such as Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, Snapchat, or any other similar websites are prohibited. Any representations of prohibited behavior must be immediately turned over to the principal or the principal's designee. Reproduction and distribution of these items will result in disciplinary action.
Major Theft/Possession of Stolen Property (Over $500)
Students must use only their own belongings unless explicit permission from the owner is given to borrow an item. Students must not take anything that does not
✓
belong to them. Students must not possess anything that they know, or have reason to know, has been stolen. Students must not use school-owned or personal equipment to conduct illegal activity.
Minor Theft/Possession of Stolen Property (Under $500)
Students must use only their own belongings unless explicit permission from the owner is given to borrow an item. Students must not take anything that does not
✓
belong to them. Students must not have anything that they know, or have reason to know, has been stolen. Students must not use school-owned or personal equipment to conduct illegal activity.
19

Levels
Behavior violations and response levels
1 2 3 4 5
Minor Theft/Possession of Stolen Property (Under $500)
Students must use only their own belongings unless explicit permission from the owner is given to borrow an item. Students must not take anything that does not
✓
belong to them. Students must not have anything that they know, or have reason to know, has been stolen. Students must not use school-owned or personal equipment to conduct illegal activity.
Physical Contact (No bodily harm)
Students must get help when needed to solve problems nonviolently. Students must
✓
not engage in non-serious but inappropriate physical contact, such as pushing, play fighting, and intimidation.
Physical Contact with Staff
Students must seek help to solve problems nonviolently. Students must not engage in physical contact toward staff. Students who engage in physical contact toward staff
✓
may have up to a five-day suspension pending a school investigation. Students may be recommended for an administrative review/hearing based on the outcome of the investigation.
Possession of Other Weapon or Object, not a firearm and not meeting Minnesota
Statute dangerous weapon definition, with no intent.
Students are expected to bring objects and materials to school that are required for learning and participating in activities. Students must keep dangerous weapons out of school. "Other weapon" includes any device or instrument - including any nonconventional weapon - which, in the manner it is used or intended to be used, is
✓
calculated or likely to produce bodily harm or substantial bodily harm, or fear of any degree of bodily harm.
Other weapons include but are not limited to knives with blades, fake knives, look-alike weapons, clubs, metal knuckles, chains, poisons, arrows, bats, nunchucks, throwing stars, stun guns, mace and other propellants, and other objects that have been modified to serve as a weapon, etc.
Possession/Use of a Dangerous Weapon Other than a Firearm
Students are expected to bring objects and materials to school that are required for learning and participating in activities. Students may not bring dangerous weapons to school. A "dangerous weapon other than a firearm" is defined as:
1. Any device or instrument designed as a weapon and capable of producing death or great bodily harm;
2. Any device modified so that it may be used as a weapon and capable of producing death or great bodily harm;
3. Any combustible or flammable liquid or other device or instrumentality that, in
✓
the manner it is used or intended to be used, is calculated or likely to produce death or great bodily harm;
4. Any fire that is used to produce death or great bodily harm;
5. Any knife with a blade;
6. Any replica firearm, BB or pellet gun.
Minn. Stat § 609.02, subd. 8 (def. great bodily harm)
Minn. Stat § 609.02, subd. (def. of dangerous weapon)
Minn. Stat § 609.66, subd. 1d, 18 U.S.C. § 930(g)(2) (def. dangerous weapon)
20

Levels
Behavior violations and response levels
1 2 3 4 5
Possession/Use of a Firearm
Students are expected to bring objects and materials to school that are required for learning and participating in activities. Students may not bring firearms to school.
Firearms are banned from all property owned or controlled by Robbinsdale Area
✓
Schools. A firearm is defined in Minn. Stat. § 609.666, subd. 1(a) as a device designed to be used as a weapon, from which is expelled a projectile by the force of explosion or by the force of combustion.
Possession/Use of Other Weapon or Object, not a firearm and not meeting
Minnesota Statute dangerous weapon definition, with use or intent to use
Students are expected to bring objects and materials to school that are required for learning and participating in activities. Students may not bring weapons to school.
"Other weapon" includes any device or instrument - including any non-conventional weapon - which, in the manner it is used or intended to be used, is calculated or likely to produce bodily harm or substantial bodily harm or fear of any degree of bodily
✓
harm. Other weapons include but are not limited to knives with blades, fake knives, look-alike weapons, clubs, metal knuckles, chains, poisons, arrows, bats, nunchucks, throwing stars, stun guns, mace and other propellants, and other objects that have been modified to serve as a weapon, etc.
Minn. Stat § 609.02, subd. 7 & 7a (def. great bodily harm, substantial bodily harm)
Minn. Stat § 609.713, subd. 3 (b)(2)(def. replica firearm)
Property Damage/Vandalism (Under $500)
Students must take care of school property. Students must not damage, break,
✓
destroy or misuse school property or anything that belongs to someone else.
Property Damage/Vandalism (Over $500)
Students must take care of school property. Students must not damage, break,
✓
destroy or misuse school property.
Reckless Driving
Students must abide by speed limits and traffic signals. Students must not drive on
✓
school property in such a manner as to endanger persons or property.
Selling Drugs or Controlled Substances
Students are expected to bring objects and materials to school that are required for learning and participating in activities. Students may not sell or distribute legal or illegal drugs, synthetic drugs/imitations, alcohol, or other controlled substances.
Students may be referred for a chemical use assessment.
✓
Minn. Stat § 152.01, subds. 1-22 (definition of controlled substances)
Minn. Stat § 152.02
Minn. Stat §§ 152.021-152.025 (controlled substance crimes in the 1st through 5th degrees)
Sexually Inappropriate Behavior
Maintain appropriate boundaries with peers. Students must not engage in sexual behavior, including but not limited to, sexual intercourse, displaying or distributing
✓
sexually explicit materials, indecent exposure, and other sexual contact.
21

Levels
Behavior violations and response levels
1 2 3 4 5
Sexual Assault
Students must protect the safety and rights of others. Students must not sexually attack nor sexually abuse another person. Students must not engage in non-
✓
consensual sexual intercourse, sexual contact, or indecent exposure with another person.
Substantial Disruption
Students are expected to help maintain a safe and productive learning environment.
Students must not engage in or cause disruptive behavior that creates a substantial
✓
risk of (or results in) injury or that significantly disrupts learning (e.g., throwing chairs, causing the evacuation of classrooms, eloping to unsafe areas).
Threats
Students are expected to be kind to other people. Students may not make any oral, written or physical threat, sign, or act that conveys intent to cause harm or violence,
✓
even made in jest.
Threats of Violence
Students are expected to be kind to other people. Threatening directly or indirectly to commit any crime of violence with intent to terrorize another or to cause evacuation of a building, place of assembly or vehicle, or otherwise to cause serious public
✓
inconvenience or in reckless disregard of the risk of causing such terror or inconvenience, is prohibited.
Minn. Stat § 609.713 (def. of terrorist threats)
Tobacco/Smoking
Students are expected to protect their own health and safety and that of others.
Students must not possess, smoke or use any kind of tobacco product or associated
✓
paraphernalia including e-cigarettes and vaping. American Indian students may possess tobacco which is used for traditional and ceremonial purposes.
Trespassing, Including During Periods of Dismissal or Suspension
Students must stay in designated areas of the school to which they have been assigned. Students must have permission from a building administrator, or be escorted by a parent/caregiver or emergency contact person, to enter a building other than their own. Students must not return to any school while assigned to the
Alternative Education Services programs, or under expulsion or removal, except with permission from a building administrator and under escort by a parent/caregiver or
✓
emergency contact person. During Alternative Education Services placement, students may not go to any school, or school activity, other than the school to which they are assigned, except with specific permission and supervision as described in this paragraph.
Minn. Stat § 609.605, subd. 4
Truancy (Grades 6-12)
Students are expected to be at school. Students may not receive an "unexcused
✓
absence" for a half day or more.
22

Levels
Behavior violations and response levels
1 2 3 4 5
Use/Possession of Combustibles - Elementary
Students must obey the law regarding combustibles. Students must not use or be in possession of substances/objects capable of causing bodily harm and/or property
✓
damage (matches, lighters, firecrackers, gasoline, lighter fluid, etc.).
Use/Possession of Combustibles - Secondary
Students must obey the law regarding combustibles. Students must not use or be in possession of substances/objects capable of causing bodily harm and/or property
✓
damage (matches, lighters, firecrackers, gasoline, lighter fluid, etc.).
Use/Possession of Drugs, Alcohol or Other Controlled Substances
Students are expected to protect their own health and safety and that of others.
Students must not bring alcohol or illegal drugs to school or school activities. Students must not use, be under the influence of, or buy or sell alcohol or illegal drugs. This section also applies to any substance made to look like, or represented to be, illegal drugs or alcohol and any related paraphernalia. Students are permitted to bring
✓
prescribed or over-the-counter medication to school only with permission from parents/guardians and with the authorization and supervision of their health care provider and school administrator or administrator's designee. Prescribed or over-thecounter medication is for the student's use only. A student must not sell or give prescribed or over-the-counter medication to anyone at school.
23

Section 6: Information and resources
How to reach us
SCHOOLS SERVICES
Education Service Center elementary middle schools magnet schools
4148 Winnetka Ave. N.
schools
Plymouth Middle School FAIR School Crystal
New Hope
Forest Elementary 10011 36th Ave. N. (grades 6-8)
763-504-8000
6800 47th Ave. N. Plymouth 3915 Adair Ave. N.
Student Services
Crystal
763-504-7100 Crystal
763-504-8027
763-504-7900 763-971-4501
Robbinsdale Middle School
Early Childhood Family
Lakeview Elementary 3730 Toledo Ave. N. FAIR School Pilgrim Lane
Education
4110 Lake Dr. Robbinsdale (grades K-5)
763-504-4170
Robbinsdale
763-504-4800 3725 Pilgrim Lane N.
763-504-4100
Plymouth
Early Childhood Preschool
Sandburg Middle School
763-504-8400
763-504-5330
Meadow Lake Elementary 400 Sandburg Lane
8525 62nd Ave. N. Golden Valley Robbinsdale Spanish
Food Services/Nutrition
Brooklyn Park 763-504-8200 Immersion School (RSIS)
Services
763-504-7700
(grades K-5)
763-504-8050
8808 Medicine Lake Rd.
Neill Elementary
High Schools
New Hope
Robbinsdale Virtual
6600 Medicine Lake Rd.
763-504-4400
Academy
Armstrong High School
Crystal
763-504-8700
10635 36th Ave. N.
763-504-7400
School of Engineering and
Plymouth
Arts (SEA)
Transportation
Noble Elementary
763-504-8800
(grades K-5)
763-504-8107
2601 Noble Ave. N.
1751 Kelly Dr.
Cooper High School
Golden Valley
Golden Valley
8230 47th Ave. N.
763-504-4000
763-504-7200
New Hope
Northport Elementary
763-504-8500
5421 Brooklyn Blvd.
Robbinsdale Academy-
Brooklyn Center
Highview
763-504-7800
2400 Sandburg Lane
Sonnesyn Elementary
Golden Valley
3421 Boone Ave. N.
763-504-8703
New Hope
Robbinsdale Virtual
763-504-7600
Academy
Zachary Lane Elementary
2400 Sandburg Lane,
4350 Zachary Lane
Golden Valley
Plymouth
763-504-8700
763-504-7300
24

Minnesota Department of Education: Parental
Links to additional information
Rights
Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS)
State laws governing parental rights related to topics
The Multi-Tiered System of Supports is the district's in pre-K through grade 12 education.
framework for helping all students succeed by matching instruction, interventions and assessment to
Health Services the personalized needs of students.
Rdale's Health Services Department seeks to create and sustain a school environment that promotes and
Student Services supports student health, well-being and academic
The Robbinsdale Area Schools Student Services achievement. Research shows healthy students are website includes helpful information on activities and better learners.
athletics, alternative programs, behavior resources, health resources, targeted services and Section 504
Transportation plans.
The Transportation department is committed to providing a positive, safe experience for those who ride
Pupil Fair Dismissal Act the district school buses. School bus schedule
The Pupil Fair Dismissal Act includes the policies, information is mailed to families in the Robbinsdale grounds and procedures for dismissing students from
Area Schools district before the first day of school.
public schools in Minnesota (Minn. Stat. §§ 121A.40-
Additional transportation information can be found on
121A.56).
the department's website.
Minnesota State High School League
Special Education
Robbinsdale Area Schools participates in the
Rdale's special education programs and services are
Minnesota State High School League. The League designed to meet the needs of children and youth exists to provide competitive, equitable and uniform ages birth through 21 years with various disabilities.
opportunities for high school students to learn
The Special Education Department has information valuable lessons through participation in athletics and and resources for families along with district practices.
fine arts. Policies regarding eligibility, sportsmanship, chemical health and scholarship recognition are listed on the League's website.
25

Test security concerns
State testing
If you have any concerns about suspected incidents of
Statewide tests, the Minnesota Comprehensive cheating or other improper or unethical behavior on
Assessments MCAs) and Minnesota Test of Academic statewide assessments, you can report that
Skills (MTAS) help school districts measure student information to your school principal, the district's progress toward Minnesota's reading, math, and
Research, Evaluation and Assessment department science academic standards and meet the
(REA@rdale.org or 763-504-8103), or by submitting the requirements of the Elementary and Secondary
District Test Security Report.
Education Act (ESEA).
Why statewide test results matter
The ACCESS for ELLs and WIDA Alternate ACCESS are
Participating in statewide assessments helps families
English language proficiency tests used to meet see a snapshot of their student's learning so they can federal and state legislative requirements. These advocate for their success in school.
assessments are used to monitor English learners'
progress as they develop academic language skills in
Assessments are a way to gather information used for reading, writing, listening, and speaking.
making educational decisions. Teachers and school districts use a variety of assessment types to guide
PLEASE NOTE: Minnesota Comprehensive Assessment instruction and support students. Minnesota students scores are used in determining course placement at take statewide assessments to provide school districts
Minnesota State Colleges and Universities. A student's and the public with information about equitable
MCA score could save families significant money by opportunities for all students to engage with high demonstrating that students do not need to take nonquality content in school.
credit-bearing courses. For more information, please visit MDE's website.
The Minnesota Department of Education (MDE) uses
MCAs to find out how well schools have aligned
Cell phones curriculum to and instructed students in the
Students may not use cell phones, wearable
Minnesota Academic Standards in reading, technology (e.g., smart watches, fitness trackers) or any mathematics, and science. Schools use the other device (except the school-owned device being information to improve classroom teaching and used for testing) during testing, including during learning. Teachers and principals look for areas where breaks. Students cannot receive or view calls, texts, or students do well so they can reinforce the ways they alerts during test administration. Students may not teach these skills. They also look for areas that need wear or access wearable technology during testing if improvement so they can increase instructional time the device can electronically send or receive or modify their instruction. For more information information. If one of these devices is worn during about statewide testing, see MDE's statewide testing testing, the student's test must be invalidated because website.
the device is visible and accessible.
If a student has a cell phone or other electronic device in a testing room, the student must turn their cell phone (or other device) off, place it in an envelope
(provided by the school) and store the envelope where it will be inaccessible during testing.
See rdale.org/academics/Minnesota-assessments for more information.
26

27

28

• Board Policy No. 514 - Bullying Prohibition Policy
Student-Family Use Agreement: Digital
Devices
• Board Policy No. 515 - Protection and Privacy of
Student Records
The digital device provided to students is a
Chromebook or an iPad. Internet access is needed for • Board Policy No. 516 - Student Medication most student work to be saved and shared. If your
• Board Policy No. 521 - Student Disability student does not have internet access, please contact
Nondiscrimination their school for information on low-cost internet
• Board Policy No. 522 - Title IX Student Gender or options for your family. Various locations in the
Sexual Orientation Nondiscrimination community also provide free wireless Internet, including public libraries. Media centers have a limited • Board Policy No. 524 - Internet Acceptable Use and number of hotspots (mobile internet Wi-Fi devices).
Safety Policy
• Board Policy No. 525AP - Violence Prevention
Digital devices and accessories are the property of
• Board Policy No. 526 - Hazing Prohibition
Robbinsdale Area Schools and must be returned to
Robbinsdale Area Schools. Fees will be assessed for
• Board Policy No. 527AP - Student Use and Parking negligent damage or a lost device, charger, or case.
of Motor Vehicles: Patrols, Inspections, and
Devices and accessories not returned on the date of
Searches student withdrawal from school will be reported as
• Board Policy No. 528AP - Student Parental, Family, stolen to the local police department.
and Marital Status Nondiscrimination
• Board Policy No. 529 - Staff Notification of Violent
More information can be found in the Family and
Behavior by Students
Student Technology Handbook.
• Board Policy No. 531 - The Pledge of Allegiance
School Board policies and procedures
• Board Policy No. 532 - Use of Peace Officers and
Crisis Team to Remove Students with IEP's from
Additional policies and procedures can be found in the
School Grounds
School Board section of Rdale's website. Below is a list of policies relevant to the Guide to Student Support
• Board Policy No. 580AP - Education of Homeless and Behavior with a link to the policy.
Students
• Board Policy No. 102 - Equal Educational
• Board Policy No. 707AP - Transportation of Public
Opportunity
School Students
• Board Policy No. 102.1 - Equity Policy
• Board Policy No. 708AP - Transportation of
Nonpublic School Students
• Board Policy No. 413 - Discrimination, Harassment and Violence
• Board Policy No. 709 - Student Transportation
Safety
• Board Policy No. 502 - Search of Student Lockers,
Desks, Personal Possessions, and Student's Person
• Board Policy No. 710AP - Extracurricular
Transportation
• Board Policy No. 503AP - Student Attendance
• Board Policy No. 711AP - Video Recording on
• Board Policy No. 504AP - Student Dress and
School Buses
Appearance
• Board Policy No. 712AP - Video Surveillance Other
• Board Policy No. 505AP - Distribution of Nonschool
Than On Buses
-Sponsored Materials on School Premises by
Students and Employees
• Board Policy No. 801AP - Equal Access to School
Facilities
• Board Policy No. 506 AP: Student Discipline
• Board Policy No. 806 - Crisis Management
• Board Policy No. 507AP- Corporal Punishment
• Board Policy No. 807- Health and Safety
• Board Policy No. 510AP - School Activities
• Board Policy No. 899 - Unmanned Aerial Vehicles/
• Board Policy No. 512AP - School Sponsored
Drones
Student Publications and Activities
29

30

31

BOARD OF EDUCATION
ReNae Bowman, Chair ⚫ Kim Holmes, Vice Chair ⚫ Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Clerk ⚫ John Vento, Treasurer
Helen Bassett, Director ⚫ Sharon E. Brooks, Director ⚫ Caroline Long, Director
SUPERINTENDENT
Dr. Teri Staloch
To access the information in this guide from a device, scan this QR code or visit this link:
bit.ly/3M8PWm0
ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS, 4148 WINNETKA AVE N., NEW HOPE, MN 55427
MAIN: 763-504-8000 ⚫ ENROLLMENT CENTER: 763-504-8080
WWW.RDALE.ORG

WV DEPARTMENT
OF EDUCATION

Statewide Assessments:
Parent/Guardian Participation Guide and Refusal Information

Your student's participation in statewide assessments is important as it allows your school and district to ensure all students have access to a high-quality education. In the past, students with disabilities and English learners were often excluded from statewide assessments. By requiring that all students take statewide assessments, schools and teachers have more information to see how all students are doing. This helps schools to continuously improve the education they provide and to identify groups, grades, or subjects that may need additional support.

Assessments Connect to Standards | Minnesota Comprehensive Assessments (MCA)

Statewide assessments are based on the Minnesota MCA and the alternate assessments (Minnesota Test of Academic
Skills (MTAS)/Alternate MCA) are the annual assessments in reading, mathematics and science that measure a snapshot of student learning of the Minnesota K-12 Academic Standards.

Academic Standards or the WIDA English Language
Development Standards. These standards define the knowledge and skills students should be learning in

K-12 districts and charter schools. Minnesota ACCESS and WIDA Alternate ACCESS for English Learners prioritizes high-quality education and statewide The ACCESS and WIDA Alternate ACCESS are the annual assessments give educators and leaders an assessments for English learners that provide information about

opportunity to evaluate student and school success. their progress in learning academic English, based on the WIDA
English Language Development Standards.

Statewide Assessments Help Families and Students

Participating in statewide assessments helps families see a snapshot of their student's learning so they can advocate for their success in school. High school students can use MCA results:

e For Postsecondary Enrollment Options (PSEO) in grade 10.
e For course placement at a Minnesota State college or university. If students receive a college-ready score, they may not need to take a remedial, noncredit course for that subject.

English learners who take the ACCESS or WIDA Alternate ACCESS and meet certain requirements, have the opportunity to exit from English learner programs.

Taking Statewide Assessments Helps Your Student's School
Statewide assessments provide information to your school and district about how all students are engaging with the content they learn in school. This information helps:

e Educators evaluate their instructional materials.

e Schools and districts identify inequities between groups, explore root causes and implement supports.
e School and district leaders make decisions on how to use money and resources to support all students.

Student Participation in Statewide Assessments

Student participation in state and locally required assessments is a parent/guardian choice. If you choose to have your student not participate in a statewide assessment, please provide a reason for your decision on the form below. Contact your student's school to learn more about locally required assessments.

27

a -
a

Consequences of Not Participating in Statewide Assessments

e The student will not receive an individual score. For ACCESS and WIDA Alternate Explore the
ACCESS, the student would not have the opportunity to exit their English learner program.

¢ School and district assessment results will be incomplete, making it more difficult to have an accurate picture of student learning.

e Since all eligible students are included in some calculations even when they do not participate, school and district accountability results are impacted. This may affect the school's ability to be identified for support or recognized for success.

Statewide

Testing page for more information.

(education.mn.gov > Students and Families > Programs and not participating. Initiatives > Statewide Testing)

Check with your local school or district to see if there are any additional consequences for

Additional Information

e On average, students spend less than 1% of instructional time taking statewide assessments each year.

e Minnesota statutes limit the total amount of time students can spend taking other district- or school-wide assessments to 11 hours or less each school year, depending on the grade.

e School districts and charter schools are required to publish an assessment calendar on their website by the beginning of each school year. Refer to your district or charter school's website for more information on assessments.

Statewide Assessment: Parent/Guardian Decision Not to Participate

By completing this form, you are acknowledging that your student will not participate in statewide assessments and will not receive individual assessment results.

First Name: Middle Initial: Last Name:
Date of Birth: Current Grade in School: Student ID Number (if known):
School: District:

Parent/Guardian Name (print):

Parent/Guardian Signature: Date:

Reason for Refusal:

Please indicate the statewide assessment(s) you are opting your student out of this school year:
[ | MCA/MTAS Reading [| MCA/Alternate MCA Science
[ | MCA/MTAS Mathematics [| ACCESS/WIDA Alternate ACCESS
Contact your school or district for more information on how to opt out of local assessments.

(Note: This form is only applicable for the 20. to 20 school year.)

28

\» Guide to Addressing Parent and Community Concerns
Ht \

What kind of concern do you have?

[a]
a

Classroom School District School Board

t t t $

Contact Contact Contact Contact
TEACHER PRINCIPAL LET'S TALK LET'S TALK
AND/OR

4 4 af Contact

SCHOOL BOARD

If not resolved If not resolved If not resolved MEMBER(S)

Contact Contact Contact
PRINCIPAL EXEC. DIRECTOR OF DEPARTMENT
STUDENT SERVICES | DIRECTOR / ADMIN.

t t t

If not resolved If not resolved If not resolved
Contact Contact Contact
EXEC. DIRECTOR OF ASSISTANT EXEC. DIRECTOR OF

STUDENT SERVICES | SUPERINTENDENT |STUDENT SERVICES

t t

If not resolved If not resolved
Contact Contact
ASSISTANT ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT SUPERINTENDENT

If you're unsure who to call, contact the DISTRICT OFFICE at 763-504-8000.
BELIEVE. BELONG. BECOME.

ROBBINS! 763-504-8000 | rdale.org

Area School

30

Robbinsdale Area Schools b&
EMERGENCY RESPONSE GUIDE

HOLD

Medical Emergency/
Individual Crisis

« Move students away from the incident location.
Students outside may remain outside.

e Staff should scan and keep hallways clear.
Instruction and normal activity may continue unless directed via PA system. Await further instructions.

e Remain at current location until an announcement is made to resume the normally scheduled activities and movement in the building.

LOCKDOWN

Threat INSIDE the building

Scan the hallway quickly and move students and others into the nearest room.

Close and lock all doors. Consider putting objects in front of the door as a barricade.

Turn off lights, stay out of sight and instruct students to stay quiet, calm and alert.

No one should leave the room.

In the event of a fire alarm during a lockdown, do not evacuate.

Students and Staff: SILENCE cell phones.

Stay put, pending further instruction. If confronted with a life or death situation, use your judgment to evade, distract or defend with any object available.

SECURE

(inside)
Threat OUTSIDE the building

e Alert and bring all students and staff inside from outside activities (recess, gym, science class, etc.)

e Close and lock exterior windows and doors.
Cover exterior windows, if possible.

¢ Instruction and all normal indoor activity may continue unless otherwise directed.

: SEVERE
WEATHER

Threat OUTSIDE the building

Direct all people to the nearest severe weather shelter or safe area within the building.

When appropriate, instruct students to "duck and cover" with backs against the wall.
Remain in the sheltered areas until further instructions are given or the warning is cleared.

EVACUATE

Threat INSIDE the building

Follow posted evacuation routes, fire exit routes or exit signs to get outside. Choose the safest route.

Teachers should bring a class roster, if possible, when leaving the building.

Move to the designated meeting areas outside the building, a safe distance away.

For situations involving hazardous materials, move upwind.

Once outside at the designated meeting area, teachers should take attendance. Report any missing students to the building administrator immediately.

Remain in the safe areas until further instruction is given or the event is cleared.

Md ropainspALe
Area Schools

Revised: Aug. 22, 2024

31