SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT AND
FULL AND FINAL RELEASE OF CLAIMS

This Settlement Agreement and Full and Final Release of Claims ("Agreement") is entered into between Robbinsdale Area Schools, Independent School District 281 ("ISD 281"),
Peterson Sheet Metal ("PSM"), and Trane U.S. Inc. ("Trane"), all together "the parties." This
Agreement shall become binding and effective upon approval by the ISD 281 School Board.

WHEREAS, ISD 281 contracted with PSM for mechanical work to be performed at
Cooper High School, located at 8230 47" Avenue North in New Hope, Minnesota, pursuant to a
December 8, 2020 contract (the "Project"); and

WHEREAS, PSM contracted with Trane for the provision of materials for the Project, including fan coil units; and

WHEREAS, ISD 281 alleges that Trane was supposed to provide, and that PSM was supposed to install, double wall fan coil units at Cooper High School; and

WHEREAS, Trane provided, and PSM installed, single wall fan coil units at Cooper
High School; and

WHEREAS, ISD 281 withheld Project payments from PSM totaling approximately
$185,576.99; and

WHEREAS, PSM withheld Project payments from Trane totaling approximately
$117,654.94; and

WHEREAS, the parties dispute whether the Project specifications and plans called for double wall or single wall fan coil units; and

WHEREAS, to avoid protracted litigation, the parties desire to settle fully and finally any and all disputes between them;

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, agreements, covenants, and provisions contained in this Agreement, the parties state and affirm their agreement as follows:

1. Incorporation of Recitals. The recitals above are integral hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.

2. Settlement Payment and Waiver. Payment shall be made and balances claimed owing shall be waived as follows:

a. ISD 281 will make payment to PSM in the amount of $40,576.99 in full satisfaction of its contract obligations for the Project;

b. PSM will waive its claim to any additional amounts claimed owing from ISD 281 for the Project; and

c. Trane will waive its claim to any amounts claimed owing from PSM for the Project.

3. Mutual Release. In exchange for the payment and the waivers set forth in
Paragraph 2, the parties agree to mutual release of any and all claims that any party may have against another for payment arising from the Project or for damages arising from the provision and installation of single wall fan coil units. Each of the parties releases the other parties and their predecessors, successors, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, agents, assigns, officers, directors, employees, insurers, excess insurers, and reinsurers, from all such claims for further payment for the Project or for any damages arising out of or in any way related to the installation of single wall fan coil units as part of the Project, including any claims known or unknown, legal or equitable, whether based in contract, arising by statute, or at common law. It is the specific intent of the parties that ISD 281, PSM, and Trane, and their respective predecessors, successors, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, agents, assigns, officers, directors, employees, and insurers, excess insurers, and reinsurers, shall have no further liability or monetary obligation of any kind to each other with respect to the Project.

4. Statement of Intent / Indemnity. It is specifically agreed that the intent of this
Agreement is to provide the exclusive remedy to the parties as to any dispute arising out of the provision and installation of single wall fan coil units as part of the Project. If ISD 281 initiates a claim of any kind against any third person or entity who is not a party to this Agreement, and any claim against Trane and/or PSM results therefrom, which claim arises out of or is in any way related to the provision and installation of single wall fan coil units, then ISD 281 shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless Trane and/or PSM and their respective predecessors, successors, affiliates, agents, assigns, officers, employees, and insurers, excess insurers, and reinsurers, from any claims for subrogation, contribution, indemnity, or any other means of recovery, including any costs, disbursement, and attorney fees incurred in defending any such claims.

5. No Admission of Wrongdoing. This Agreement is made in compromise of disputed claims and to avoid the costs, burdens, and uncertainties of further litigation. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as an admission of wrongdoing, fault, or liability of any kind

by any party.

6. Irrevocable. This Agreement, including the releases of claims, is effective upon formal approval by the ISD 281 School Board and is not rescindable or revocable with respect to any claims by or against a party absent a material breach by the party against which rescission or revocation is sought.

7. Non-Disparagement. The parties, and their respective agents, board members, officers, directors, and employees, agree that they will not make disparaging remarks or comments, whether written or oral, of any kind about the other parties. Nothing in this
Agreement shall be construed to prohibit ISD 281, including its board members and employees, from providing information to the public about the facts underlying this Agreement as may be required in the course of discharging its duties as a public body. The promise of non-disparagement is a material term of this Agreement.

8. Voluntary Agreement. The parties acknowledge that no person has exerted undue pressure or influence on them to sign this Agreement. The parties are voluntarily and freely choosing to enter into this Agreement because of the benefits provided under this
Agreement. Each party has had adequate opportunity to review this Agreement with counsel of their choosing.

9, Choice of Law. This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of
Minnesota.

10. Equal Drafting. In the event any party asserts that a provision of this Agreement is ambiguous, the Agreement will be deemed to have been drafted equally by the parties. Any canon of construction otherwise requiring that ambiguities be resolved against the drafter shall not apply to this Agreement.

11. Grammar. As used in this Agreement, the singular or plural number shall be deemed to include the other whenever the context so indicates or requires.

12. Complete Agreement. This Agreement reflects the full and complete agreement between the parties. The parties represent that they have not relied on any promise, statement, representation, warranty, or inducement, whether express or implied, at law or in inequity, that is not expressly stated in this Agreement. A copy of this Agreement shall have the same legal effect as the original.

13. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and by different signatories on separate pages, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which shall, together, be one and the same Agreement.

14. Authorization. All corporate signatories represent that they are authorized to execute this Agreement, and legally bind their respective companies as set forth in this
Agreement. All signatories on behalf of ISD 281 represent that they are authorized by the ISD
281 School Board to bind ISD 281 as set forth in this Agreement.

15. Amendments, The Agreement may not be amended without each party's prior written consent.

By signing below, each party specifically acknowledges that it has reviewed the terms of this Agreement with legal counsel; that it fully understands the terms of this Agreement; and that it knowingly and voluntarily intends to be legally bound by the terms of this Agreement.

Independent School District No. 281

Dated: Jul y 22., 20244 , 2024

Dated:

By:
Its:

Peterson Sheet Metal, Inc.

Dated:

Trane U.S., Inc.
By:

Its: