Robbinsdale Area
Public Schools
Pre-Referendum Community
Engagement Process Report
July 22, 2024
Educate. Communicate. Motivate.

Goal of the process
● To provide information that can help you determine whether to move forward with a referendum
● To help determine how the district should prioritize referendum fund expenditures, and
● To allow the community to provide feedback on the school board's referendum proposal, and have input into how the district spends taxpayer dollars

Information Obtained
● Statistically valid surveys - 400 community members; 400
parents
● Opt-in online survey - 940 district staff and family members
● Presentations to:
○ Staff
○ Financial Advisory Committee
○ PTOs
○ Somali and Spanish-speaking parents
○ American Indian Parent Advisory Committee
○ Career and Education Technology

Key Findings
1. The community supports renewal of the capital technology levy
2. Parents and staff support spending levy funds on technology, safety and security
3. Improve School Board dysfunction and administrative management before there is a negative impact on overall community perception of the district.

Key Finding 1: Community Support
● The Morris Leatherman statistically valid survey found that 83% of community members would support or strongly support the capital projects levy renewal.
● Of 937 respondents to the opt-in survey (families, staff), 85% strongly agree or agree with the statement, "I support renewing the capital technology levy in the fall of 2024."
Conclusion: There is strong community support for renewal of the levy.
Recommendation: Emphasize the positive responses of those in the community when providing information about the levy renewal prior to the November election.

Key Finding 2: Technology, Safety & Security
● Both parents and staff rated Technology Infrastructure as the greatest priority at 70% and 83%, respectively.
● Secure building entrances and building security infrastructure were rated as essential or a high priority for more than 70% of respondents who completed the opt-in survey.
Conclusion: Technology, safety and security are important priorities for parents and staff.
Recommendation: While all areas evaluated exceeded 60% for an Essential/High
Priority, emphasize Technology Infrastructure and Building Security, particularly for staff members, who cited internet connectivity as a pain point in their ability to teach.

Key Finding 3: Improve School Board dysfunction and administrative management before there is a negative impact on overall community perception of the district.
When parents/families and staff members were asked about barriers to the success of the referendum, some cited:
● Uncertainty in district leadership, including turnover at superintendent and finance director
● Dysfunction at the school board level
The good news: community members feel Robbinsdale Area Schools overall is doing a good job.
● 79% rate the quality of education as good or excellent
● 83% feel the district is meeting the learning needs of all or most students

Key Finding 3: District leadership can be improved before there is a negative impact on overall community perception of the district.
Conclusion: Improve School Board dysfunction and administrative management before there is a negative impact on overall community perception of the district.
Recommendations:
● The new superintendent should conduct a listening tour to learn more about community needs while also providing a clear vision for the future, then institute a new culture of excellence district-wide.
● School board members should focus on the common goal of winning the referendum by providing clear, concise, consistent factual information to the greater community.

Summary
● 79% of residents rate Robbinsdale's quality of education as good or excellent.
● Community and staff are supportive of the renewal of the capital technology levy.
● Parents and staff support spending levy funds on technology, safety and security.
● Improve School Board dysfunction and administrative management before there is a negative impact on overall community perception of the district.

Thank you!
Jeff Dehler
Krisanthy Sikkila
DehlerPR
DehlerPR
Jeff@DehlerPR.com
Krisanthy@DehlerPR.com