School Board
Handbook
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024

Introduction 1
Navigating this Handbook 1
Handbook Maintenance and Review Procedure 1
District Information 5
District Identity 6
Leadership Directory 3
District Facilities 4
Strategic Framework 4
References for Further Information 4
Board Membership 6
Post Election Procedures 7
Canvass and Declaration of Results 7
Certification of Results 7
Issuance of Certificate of Election 7
Campaign Financial Report Certification of Filing 7
Taking Office 7
Official Oath of Office 7
Ceremonial Oath of Office 7
Organizational Meeting 7
District Intake Paperwork 8
Board Organization 8
Eligibility Requirements 8
Term of Office 8
Filling Vacancies 8
Board Composition 8
Board Offices 9
Board Compensation 10
Expense Reimbursement 10
Learning the Job 11
Learning from Board Colleagues 11
Mentorship 11
Ongoing Professional Development 12
Individual Board Membership 12
Duties as an Individual Board Member 12
Board Time Commitment 12
Conflict of Interest 13
Working as a Board Team 13
Duties of the Board 13
Board Governance Model 14
Standards for Board Leadership 15
Attributes of High-Performing Board Teams 15
School Board Self-Evaluation 15
Role of the Superintendent 16
Hiring a Superintendent 16
Duties of the Superintendent 16
Tenets of an Effective Board-Superintendent Relationship 16
Evaluating the Superintendent 16
Board Communication Guide 17
Communication Between Board Members 17
Communication with the Superintendent 18
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024

Communication with District Administrators and Staff 18
Communication with Constituents Including Staff, Students, Parents, and Community 19
Engaging with the Community 19
Communication with the Media 20
Communication on Social Media 20
Using a District Email 21
Reference for Further Information 22
Board Meetings and Governance 23
Meetings of the Board 24
Types of Meetings 24
Open Meeting Law 25
Closed Meetings 25
Meetings Conducted by Interactive Technology 25
Meeting Operations 25
Attendance of Meetings 25
Acceptable Dress Code 25
Location of Meetings 26
Addressing Others 26
Presentations 26
Voting 26
Quorum of the Board 26
Parliamentary Procedure During Meetings 26
Presiding Officer 26
Superintendent's Role in Board Meetings 26
Board Committees 27
Election of Board Officers 27
Guide to Board Meeting Roles and Responsibilities 27
Data Privacy 27
Public Comments to the Board 28
Agenda and Minutes 28
Agenda Procedures 28
Consent Agenda 29
Meeting Minutes 29
References for Further Information 29
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
2

Introduction
Navigating this Handbook
The purpose of this handbook is to outline the board's operating procedures and norms.
It also includes important information on policies, meetings, committees, partnerships, and communication. Its ongoing guidance is meant to enable each board member to fulfill essential governance duties and to exercise their responsibilities as a board member, while also providing expectations and standards of behavior for the conduct of the board.
Handbook Maintenance and Review Procedure
● Annually, the handbook will undergo a review by the board. As part of this review, the board will:
o Review mutual expectations of board norms; o Seek input and feedback regarding best practices, as needed; o Check the MSBA website for suggested handbook updates; o Adopt the updated handbook by a majority vote of the board.
● Board members may propose additions/revisions to the handbook by sending an email to the chair and superintendent requesting to add "handbook discussion" as a topic for an upcoming working session.
● The handbook will be updated to reflect adopted policy changes without further board action;
● Hyperlinks within the handbook may be updated without further board action;
● The date this handbook was last reviewed, updated, and/or revised, is included on the cover page of this handbook.
Document History
● February 15, 2024 - Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force with Board Chair and Clerk, Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board, and Interim
Superintendent was formed, and began meeting to review existing governance materials
● February 29, 2024 - Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force met to continue review of existing governance materials and organizing the work plan
● March 7, 2024 - Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force met to continue organizing the work plan
● March 21, 2024 - Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force met to review the outline created to begin the work populating the subsections with existing documents
● April 15, 2024 - Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force met to begin crafting the new handbook document
● August 15, 2024 - Chair attended MSBA Webinar for training and review of their new
Governance Manual
● September 13, 2024 - Chair and Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School
Board began to customize the document to Robbinsdale School Board Communications
Standards - created an assignment list, determined general edits to be made in customizing for Rdale
● September 20, 2024 - Chair and Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School
Board began to customize the document to Robbinsdale School Board Communications
Standards - began the process of making the defined general edits, and adding recommended edits in red for Board review
● September 30, 2024 - Chair and Clerk met to combine the old orientation manual and sync it to the new handbook.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
3

● October 2, 2024 - Board provided first draft of handbook for review in the agenda packet in preparation for the October 7, 2024 Work Session
● October 7, 2024 - reviewed first draft with Board at the Work Session
● November 4, 2024 - reviewed second draft with Board at the Work Session
● November 7, 2024 - Chair and Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School
Board worked together on finalizing the edits.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
4

District Information
The effectiveness of your decisions as a board member hinges on your knowledge of the district's schools, staff, students, and the communities they inhabit. Recognizing the specific needs and aspirations of Robbinsdale Area Schools will empower you to advocate for policies and initiatives that truly enhance our educational outcomes. By engaging with this information, you will not only enhance your ability to make informed decisions but also build trust and credibility with fellow board members, the community, staff, and students alike.
Let this knowledge serve as the foundation of your tenure, guiding your decisions and initiatives to foster an environment where every student can succeed.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
5

District Identity
Robbinsdale Area Schools Information coming soon
● History of the District - A brief overview of how the district was established, key historical milestones, and significant changes over the years.
● Demographics - Current data on the population of the district, including student enrollment numbers, graduation rates, ethnic and racial composition, socioeconomic status, languages spoken, and any notable trends in demographic shifts.
● Points of Pride - Information regarding district-wide achievements, awards, and recognitions in various areas like academics, sports, arts, and community service.
● Programming - Facts regarding curricular and extracurricular programming that distinguish your district and highlight its unique strengths.
● Community Partnerships
Leadership Directory
Board Members 2023-2024
Name Board Position Phone Number Email Address
ReNae Bowman Chair renae_bowman@rdale.org
Kim Holmes Vice Chair kim_holmes@rdale.org
Dr. Greta Evans-Becker Clerk greta_evans-becker@rdale.org
John Vento Treasurer john_vento@rdale.org
Helen Bassett Director helen_bassett@rdale.org
Sharon E. Brooks Director sharon_brooks@rdale.org
Caroline Long Director caroline_long@rdale.org
Note - Board Executive Committee Includes: Chair, Vice-Chair, Clerk, and Treasurer.
Superintendent's Office 2024
Name Position Phone Number Email Address
Dr. Teri Staloch Superintendent 763-504-8012 teri_staloch@rdale.org
Marti Voight Assistant Superintendent 763-504-8070 marti_voight@rdale.org
Kristen Hoheisel Chief Financial Officer 763-504-8037 kristen_hoheisel@rdale.org
Executive Assistant to the
Molly Olson Superintendent and 763-504-8012 molly_olson@rdale.org
School Board
Note -
Leadership Cabinet 2024
Name Position Email Address
John Groenke Executive Director of Student Services john_groenke@rdale.org
Interim Assistant Superintendent/Director of
Bridget Hall bridget_hall@rdale.org
Elementary Curriculum and Federal Programs
Amy O'Hern Executive Director of Human Resources amy_ohern@rdale.org
Executive Director of Strategic Communications, Equity
Toya Stewart Downey toya_stewartdowney@rdale.org and Inclusion
Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics
Anthony Williams anthony_williams@rdale.org and Activities
Note -
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
6

District Facilities 2024
Building Address Phone Number
Education Service Center 4148 Winnetka Ave N, New Hope, MN 55427 763-504-8000
Armstrong High School 10635 36th Ave N, Plymouth, MN 55441 763-504-8800
Bus Garage 4124 Winnetka Ave N, New Hope, MN 55427 763-504-8105
Cooper High School 8230 47th Ave N, New Hope, MN 55428 763-504-8500
Crystal Learning Center 305 Willow Bend, Crystal, MN 55428 763-504-8300
FAIR School Crystal 3915 Adair Ave N, Crystal, MN 55422 763-971-4500
FAIR School Pilgrim Lane 3725 Pilgrim Ln N, Plymouth, MN 55441 763-504-8400
Forest Elementary 6800 47th Ave N, Crystal, MN 55428 763-504-7900
Lakeview Elementary 4110 Lake Dr N, Robbinsdale, MN 55422 763-504-4100
Meadow Lake Elementary 8525 62nd Ave N, New Hope, MN 55427 763-504-7700
Neill Elementary 6600 Medicine Lake Rd, Crystal, MN 55427 763-504-7400
Noble Elementary 2601 Noble Ave N, Golden Valley, MN 55422 763-504-4000
Plymouth Middle School 10011 36th Ave N, Plymouth, MN 55441 763-504-7100
Robbinsdale Middle
3730 Toledo Ave N, Robbinsdale, MN 55422 763-504-4800
School
Robbinsdale Spanish
8808 Medicine Lake Rd, New Hope, MN 55427 763-504-4400
Immersion School
Sandburg Middle School 2400 Sandburg Ln, Golden Valley, MN 55427 763-504-8200
School of Engineering and
1751 Kelly Dr, Golden Valley, MN 55427 763-504-7200
Arts
Sonnesyn Elementary 3421 Boone Ave N, New Hope, MN 55427 763-504-7600
Warehouse 5440 Highway 169 Service Dr, New Hope, MN 55428 763-504-8131
Zachary Lane Elementary 4350 Zachary Ln N, Plymouth, MN 55442 763-504-7300
Schedule a Facility Visit or Tour
You have the same right as a parent or community member to visit the schools in your district as long as you adhere to the procedures the district has for visitors. You may also visit the schools in an official capacity with the board's authority or to fulfill a specific duty required of you as a board member. In any event, be sure to communicate with the superintendent and building administrator to schedule your visit.
You should use school visits to build good working relations with building principals and staff, to celebrate the positive accomplishments of the schools, and to show your pride as a member of the board. Look for opportunities to visit when a school is hosting a special event or recognition program for students and staff.
Robbinsdale Area Schools - To request your building or program tour, email the superintendent and the superintendent will contact the building administrator to schedule.
Strategic Framework
Robbinsdale Area Schools
● Strategic Plan Document 2024-2025
● Strategic Plan Framework Document
References for Further Information
Robbinsdale Area Schools
● District Policies and Procedures
● Strategic Plan Document 2024-2025
● Strategic Plan Framework Document
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
7

● 2023-2024 World's Best Work Force Annual Report (Name changed to: Comprehensive
Achievement and Civic Readiness - going forward)
● Stakeholder Surveys o Executive Summary - 2024 Student Survey Results
● School Improvement Plan (SIP)
SIPs are located on each school's website. Go to the desired school's site, at the top of the page under the "Discover" dropdown menu - select "About Us". Scroll down on the page to the SIP dropdown to select the button connected to the current SIP
● 2023 Graduation Rates Summary
● 2024 State Accountability Assessment Results
● District Report Card (John) - in progress, coming soon
● District Budget and Financial Reports
● District Technology Plan (Marti) - in progress, coming soon
● Emergency Plan
An effective emergency management plan in Robbinsdale Area Schools is essential to ensure the safety and well-being of students, staff, and visitors in each building.
Regular training and drills are key to helping everyone understand and practice emergency protocols, fostering a calm, organized response during an actual emergency.
Each building identifies staff members for their Incident Command Team (principal, assistant principals, support staff, and teachers) and the Care and Support Team (includes school psychologists, social workers, counselors, and nurses). The building and district work closely together and coordinate with the local emergency responders.
Building principals plan and conduct drills throughout the school year, including five lockdown drills, five fire drills, and one tornado drill annually. Principals train and update staff on emergency procedures during workshop week and continue to reinforce these practices throughout the year.
The district has adopted and utilizes the Standard Response Protocol developed by the
"I Love Your Guys" foundation. Each building has the posters below to identify the 5 areas of response.
➔ evacuation
➔ lockdown
➔ secure
➔ severe weather
➔ hold
Emergency Response Plan
The district office oversees the plan's implementation, ensuring consistency and responsiveness across all buildings and facilitating ongoing reviews and improvements to address emerging safety needs and challenges.
● Facilities Assessments o RAS FOT-LSE Secondary Capacity_2021 (presentation)
o Robbinsdale Area Schools - LSE Capacity Study_2021
o 2014 Wold Facilities Study (presentation)
o Wold Facility Study 2008 Volume 1
o Wold Facility Study 2008 Volume 2
● Staff Handbook
● A Guide to Student Support and Behavior
● Chain of Communication organizational chart(s) - in progress, coming soon (Marti)
● Employee Collective Bargaining Agreements:
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
8

o American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME)
o Cabinet o Custodial o Educational Assistants o Nutrition Services o Principals o Program Assistants o Program Directors o Robbinsdale Equity Allies o Teacher
● School Board Meeting Calendar
● School Board Meeting Agendas and Minutes
● Projects, Initiatives, Programs o Projects: Science of Reading training, Local Literacy and Assessment Plan, Curriculum
Review, Literacy committee
▪ Initiative: READ Act
● Program information:
The Minnesota READ Act is a comprehensive literacy reform aimed at improving reading outcomes for students by adopting research-based methods across the state. Passed in 2023, the Act mandates that all Minnesota schools implement evidence-based literacy instruction, particularly focusing on early grades. This legislation introduces several requirements, including universal reading screenings for students in kindergarten through third grade, the use of structured, science-based reading curricula, and substantial teacher training on literacy fundamentals, such as phonemic awareness and phonics.
Districts must select from an approved list of reading curricula and professional development programs designated by the Minnesota Department of Education
(MDE). Additionally, starting in 2024, schools are expected to report on reading progress, allowing for statewide data collection to assess the impact of these interventions. Funding is allocated to support new curriculum purchases and training, with an emphasis on providing educators with tools to close reading gaps effectively and ensure that all students are on track by the end of third grade.
o Projects: AMPACT partnership, Ongoing monthly coaching for licensed K-3 staff
▪ Initiative: Bridge to Read - Elementary
● Program information:
Bridge2Read is a literacy program developed by ServeMinnesota and Reading
Corps to improve early reading skills by equipping teachers with research-based literacy tools. Designed to work alongside existing curricula, the program consists of 30-minute lessons focused on phonological awareness, phonics, and fluency, all structured to support early literacy in a clear and systematic way.
Teachers integrate these lessons within their structured literacy blocks, ensuring that students practice essential reading skills like decoding, segmenting, and sound manipulation (phonemic awareness). This focus on foundational skills helps reinforce phonological processing, essential for reading success in young students.
Bridge2Read emphasizes ongoing support for educators through resources like a learning management system, virtual training, and coaching sessions. This model supports both classroom implementation and teacher development, addressing specific literacy gaps and enabling teachers to transfer what they
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
9

learn into daily practice. The program aligns with Minnesota's educational standards, reflecting the state's commitment to evidence-based literacy instruction, especially following the Minnesota READ Act's requirements for literacy improvement programs across districts.
o Projects: Data conversion, Training for administrators and licensed staff, Platform maintenance
▪ Initiative: EduClimber
● Program information:
EduClimber is a comprehensive data management and collaboration tool developed to support Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) by centralizing student data into one accessible platform. It collects and integrates "whole child" data, covering academic performance, social-emotional learning (SEL), attendance, behavior incidents, and intervention tracking. By gathering all this information in one place, eduClimber helps educators identify and respond to individual student needs and patterns across various metrics, aiding in real-time decision-making and enabling data-driven strategies to improve school-wide outcomes.
One key feature of EduClimber is its interactive data visualizations, which allow educators to track students' progress through dashboards and analytics. This can help stakeholders see patterns and make informed adjustments to improve interventions and outcomes. The system also offers automated alerts through a customizable early warning system to flag potential issues, enabling timely intervention. EduClimber's collaboration tools, like built-in meeting modules and customizable data "walls," streamline team communication, making it easier to work toward shared objectives and measure the impact of interventions.
Designed for easy access across the district, the platform supports equity initiatives by helping educators disaggregate data for various student demographics, analyze behavior trends, and assess the effectiveness of interventions across multiple tiers. With these tools, EduClimber offers a way to drive continuous school improvement, enhance collaborative workflows, and make data-informed decisions that advance student growth and equity.
Board Membership
When considering your governance role, embracing the procedural steps that underpin the integrity of the democratic process is paramount. From post-election procedures to the establishment of board offices, each action reflects your commitment to transparency and accountability. By being diligent in these duties, you acknowledge the trust placed in you by constituents. Prioritizing effective governance ensures you serve the community and prioritize the needs of students. Need to take a new picture to insert here.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
10

Post-Election Procedures
Canvass and Declaration of Results
Between the third and tenth days after a district election, the board must canvass the returns and declare the results of the election. Minn. Stat. 205A.10, Subd. 3.
Certification of Results
The district clerk shall certify the results of the district election to the county auditor. Minn.
Stat. 205A.10, Subd. 3.
Issuance of Certificate of Election
After canvassing the election and the time for contesting an election has passed (seven days after the canvassing board has declared the result of the election), the board shall issue a certificate of election to the candidate for each office who received the largest number of votes cast for the office. If there is a contest, the certificate of election to that office must not be issued until the outcome of the contest has been determined by the proper count. Minn.
Stat. 205A.10, Subd. 3; Minn. Stat. 204C.40, Subd. 2.
Campaign Financial Report Certification of Filing
The Certification of Filing is due no later than seven days after the general election. Minn.
Stat. 211A.05.
Taking Office
Board members take office the first Monday in January. Minn. Stat. 123B.14, Subd. 1.
Official Oath of Office
The official oath of office is administered once elections have been canvassed, the candidates have turned in their certificate of campaign filing report, and the seven-day contest period has ended. When the contest period ends, the school election officer should give each winning candidate the certificate of election. Each winning candidate then has thirty days to sign the official oath and acceptance of office form in front of a notary. By signing this document, the individual officially becomes a board member on the first
Monday in January. Minn. Stat. 358.05.
Ceremonial Oath of Office
The ceremonial oath of office is usually administered at the organizational meeting on the first Monday in January (or as soon thereafter as practicable). While the official oath of office is required, the ceremonial oath of office is optional.
Organizational Meeting
On the first Monday in January (or as soon as practicable thereafter) each year, newly elected board members' terms of office begin, and boards must meet to organize for the year. Minn.
Stat. 123B.14, Subd. 1. During this meeting, ceremonial oaths of office may be administered, officers are elected, committee assignments are established, and meeting schedules are adopted. This process lays the groundwork for the board's operations, emphasizing collaboration and effective governance to serve the district and its stakeholders.
For more regarding organizational meetings see, MSBA's First Monday in January
Handbook.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
11

District Intake Paperwork
Robbinsdale Area Schools will provide:
● Providing a copy of the board handbook
● Providing a copy of school and board calendars
● Providing access to district electronic resources
● Setting up a district email
● Scheduling a one-on-one meeting with the superintendent and cabinet
● Scheduling a one-on-one meeting with a board mentor
● Providing MSBA login information
● Providing MSBA's contact information (Phone: 507-934-2450; Online Inquiry Form)
Candidate-elect will:
● Complete onboarding paperwork including campaign finance final report
● Provide contact information including home address, and cell phone number
● Schedule photo session with Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
● Complete payroll paperwork
● Complete a background check
Board Organization
Eligibility Requirements
To run for a board seat, you must be (1) at least 21 years old, (2) an eligible voter, (3) a district resident for at least 30 days prior to election/appointment, and (4) not convicted of a felony.
Minn. Stat. 123B.09; Minn. Stat. 204B.06, Subd. 1.
Term of Office
Board members are elected to four-year terms and take office on the first Monday in January.
The term of a member who has been appointed to fill a vacancy will be for the remainder of the predecessor's term until the date of the district's next general election. There is no limit on the number of consecutive terms a board member can serve. Minn. Stat. 123B.09.
Filling Vacancies
A vacancy on the board can occur for a number of reasons including when a member dies, resigns, or ceases to be a resident of the district. All vacancies will be filled according to:
● Minn. Stat. 123B.09
● RAS Policy 215 - School Board - Vacancies and Procedures for Filling of Vacancies
For more information, regarding filling vacancies see: Steps to Fill a School Board Vacancy with Sample Application and Interview Questions. on the MSBA website.
Board Composition
Robbinsdale School Board is comprised of seven members. The superintendent is an ex-officio (non-voting) member of the board. Minn. Stat. 123B.09.
Board Officers
Officers of the board include chair, vice-chair, clerk, and treasurer. These positions are determined annually at the organizational meeting. All board members, regardless of office, maintain equal rights and equal voices. See the Election of Board Officers section on page 27
for information regarding nominating and voting procedures.
Role of the Chair
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
12

● The chair, when present, shall preside at all meetings of the board, countersign all of the orders upon the treasurer for claims allowed by the board, represent the district in all actions, and perform all duties a chair usually performs.
● the will of the board_Brooks
● In case of absence, inability, or refusal of the clerk to draw orders for the payment of money authorized by a vote of the majority of the board to be paid, the chair may draw the orders, or the office of the clerk may be declared vacant by the chair and treasurer and filled by appointment.
Role of the Vice-Chair
● The vice-chair shall perform the duties of the chair in the event of the chair's temporary absence.
Role of the Clerk
● The clerk shall keep a record of all meetings in the books provided.
o Clerk will review draft meeting minutes provided in the Wednesday preliminary agenda packets for accuracy, and provide any revisions to the Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board by Friday at noon prior to the Monday/Tuesday meeting.
● Within three days after an election, the clerk shall notify all persons elected of their election.
● The Robbinsdale Area Schools Business Office - managed by the Chief Financial Officer, on or before September 15 of each year, acting for the clerk shall:
o File with the board a report of the revenues, expenditures, and balances in each fund for the preceding fiscal year.
o Make and transmit to the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Education
(Commissioner) certified reports, showing:
- Revenues and expenditures in detail, and such other financial information required by law, rule, or as may be called for by the Commissioner;
- Length of school term and enrollment and attendance by grades; and
- Other items of information as called for by the Commissioner.
● Enter into the clerk's record book copies of all reports, the teachers' term reports, the proceedings of any meeting, and keep an itemized account of all expenses of the district.
● Furnish to the county auditor, on or before September 30 of each year, an attested copy of the clerk's record, showing the amount of proposed property tax levy voted by the district or the board for school purposes.
● Shall draw and process all orders for signatures for the payment of money for bills allowed by the board for salaries of officers and for teachers' wages and all claims.
● Shall perform such duties as required by the Minnesota Election Law or other applicable laws relating to the conduct of elections.
● The clerk shall perform the duties of the chair in the event of the chair's and the vice-chair's temporary absences.
● Robbinsdale Area Schools - By resolution, the board may combine the duties of clerk and treasurer in a single person in the Office of Business Affairs. Typically, that single person almost always delegates at least some duties to others.
Role of the Treasurer or Designee
● The treasurer shall deposit the funds of the district in the official depository.
● The treasurer shall make all reports which may be called for by the board and perform all duties a treasurer usually performs.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
13

● In the event there are insufficient funds on hand to pay valid orders presented to the treasurer, the treasurer shall receive, endorse, and process the orders in accordance with
Minn. Stat. 123B.12.
● By resolution, the board may combine the duties of clerk and treasure in a single person in the Office of Business Affairs. Typically, that single person almost always delegates at least some duties to others.
Associated Policy - 202 Policy - School Board Officer
Board Compensation
The clerk, treasurer, and superintendent of any district shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by the board. Unless otherwise provided by law, the other members of the board shall also receive such compensation as may be fixed by the board. All members of the board may receive reimbursement for transportation at the rate provided for in Minn.
Stat. 471.665. No board member or district employee shall receive any compensation or benefits based on incentives or other money provided to the district by or from a source of group insurance coverage referenced in Minn. Stat. 471.6161, Subd. 1, except for a refund provided under Minn. Stat. 123B.75, Subd. 10, or a wellness plan that is mutually agreed upon by the district and the exclusive representatives of employees.
Robbinsdale Area Schools
● Board compensation is an agenda item at the organizational meeting in January o $7,800 for Directors or $650/month o $8,400 for Vice Chair or $700/month (includes $50 stipend)
o $9,000 for Chair or $750/month (includes $100 stipend)
● Board members are paid monthly in the second pay period
Expense Reimbursement
Associated Policy - 412 Policy - Expense Reimbursement
Associated Policy - 214 Policy - Out-of-State Travel by School Board Members
● Reimbursement Processes and FAQ's
● Mileage Reimbursement Process
● Mileage Reimbursement Form (district login required)
● US General Services Administration
Learning the Job
Learning from Board Colleagues
One of the most valuable resources at your disposal, outside of this handbook, is the wealth of experience and knowledge possessed by your fellow board members and district staff.
Engaging with them can significantly enhance your understanding of board operations, policies, and educational best practices. Your colleagues on the board bring diverse backgrounds and perspectives that can provide invaluable insights. Here are a few ways to leverage their experience:
Workshops and Retreats - Participate actively in board workshops and retreats. These sessions are designed not only to address key issues but also to foster team building and collective learning.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
14

Committee Participation - Join board committees that align with your interests and expertise. Working closely with other members on specific topics will deepen your understanding and contribute to your professional growth.
Informal Meetings - Work with the superintendent to schedule informal meetings with key staff members to discuss specific areas of interest. These one-on-one interactions can offer a more personalized learning experience and help you build strong working relationships.
Mentorship
The district recognizes the importance of supporting new board members as they transition into their roles. To facilitate this, the district has implemented a mentorship program designed to provide guidance, support, and valuable insights. Each new board member will be paired with an experienced mentor who will help them navigate their responsibilities and become effective contributors to the board. This mentor will be a seasoned board member with a deep understanding of the district's operations, policies, and culture. The assignment will be made by the board chair in consultation with the superintendent to ensure a good match based on experience and areas of expertise.
To support you in this transition, you and your mentor will use the MSBA New Board
Member Orientation Year At-a-Glance to guide you through your first year. This program aims to provide you with the knowledge, tools, and support necessary to become an effective and confident board member. Mentor and mentee should schedule a time before each school board meeting to check-in regarding the upcoming agenda, policies, and procedures.
Our orientation program is structured to ensure you receive a balanced combination of printed materials, hands-on training, and personal mentorship. Throughout the year, you will engage in various learning sessions, attend MSBA training events, and participate in board meetings and district activities. These experiences are designed to deepen your understanding of board operations, district policies, and educational goals. By the end of your first year, you will have a solid foundation to effectively contribute to the board's mission of providing quality education for all students. Mentors are encouraged to attend the workshops and trainings with the mentees to make the information more relevant and specific to the district.
Ongoing Professional Development
Continuous learning is crucial for effective governance. Board members are encouraged to participate in school board and related workshops and activities sponsored by local, state, and national school boards associations, as well as in the activities of other educational groups. Each board member shall receive training in school finance and management developed in consultation with the Minnesota School Boards Association. Minn. Stat 123B.09,
Subd. 2. Below is a full list of MSBA's Learning to Lead Phase Workshops.
● Learning to Lead - School Board Basics: Phase I Workshop
● Leadership Foundations - School Finance and Management: Phase II Workshop
● Building a High-Performance School Board Team: Phase III Workshop
● Representing Your Community Through Policy and Engagement: Phase IV Workshop
Other MSBA Professional Development Opportunities - To learn more about these opportunities, see the Workshops and Events section of the MSBA website.
In District Workshops Events
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
15

Mutual Expectations Workshop Leadership Conference
School Board Self-Evaluation Summer Seminar
Workshop Delegate Assembly
Superintendent Search Day at the Capitol
Workshop Advocacy Tour
Superintendent Evaluation Coffee and Conversation Series
Workshop Board Chair Chat
Monthly Webinars
Regional Workshops
Officers' Workshop
Negotiations Seminars
Robbinsdale Area Schools
● Professional Learning Travel Authorization Process
● 214 Policy - Out-of-State Travel by School Board Members
School board members are eligible for reimbursement of expenses incurred during official district-related out of state travel (214 Policy linked above). To ensure consistency and proper use of district funds, the following guidelines apply:
1. Reimbursable Expenses
Expenses eligible for reimbursement include transportation, meals, lodging, registration fees, required materials, parking fees, tips, and other reasonable and necessary costs directly related to school district business.
2. Pre-Approval for Out-of-State Travel
Any travel to out-of-state meetings that requires reimbursement from the district must receive prior approval from the school board.
3. Reimbursement Procedures
○ Reimbursement amounts for meals are determined by: US General Services
Administration i. The Board of Education is required to review the daily per diem rate for the place of travel.
○ All reimbursement requests must be itemized on the official district reimbursement form and submitted to the designated administrator.
○ Receipts for lodging, transportation, registration fees, and other approved expenses must be attached to the form.
○ Mileage for personal automobile travel will be reimbursed at the rate set by the school board, and commercial transportation will be reimbursed at economy rates for the actual cost of travel.
4. Budget and Limitations
Reimbursements are subject to the school board's approved budget allocations. This includes attendance at workshops and conventions.
5. Meeting Limits
School board members may attend and be reimbursed for one out-of-state meeting per calendar year.
By adhering to these guidelines, school board members can ensure transparency and accountability in district-related travel and expenses.
MSBA Series of Publications - New board members automatically receive the following publications to stay current on education related news.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
16

● eClippings - Receive daily links to K-12 news from around the state.
● Leader Newsletter - Monthly updates regarding MSBA news and events, topical news items, administrative topics, and much more.
● Journal Magazine - Bimonthly magazine includes school features, exploration of leadership issues, in-depth stories on education trends, and a directory of vendors.
Individual Board Membership
Duties as an Individual Board Member
The position of board member carries with it a profound responsibility to uphold the highest ethical standards. A commitment to integrity, transparency, and accountability will not only enhance the effectiveness of educational policies but also strengthen the community's confidence in the board's decision-making. Remember that your actions and decisions will help shape the future of our students, schools, and community. Let the Code of Ethics in
District Policy 1.4 Board Code of Conduct - RAS Board Governance Policy guide you in navigating the complexities of governance with unwavering moral clarity and purposeful dedication.
Associated Policy - 209 Policy - Code of Ethics (waiting for draft document from policy committee and Anne Becker)
Board Time Commitment
The time required to complete your board responsibilities will most vary by time of year. It will depend on how many meetings are scheduled, which committees you serve on, what issues are going on in the district at the time, and how much time you need to prepare for upcoming meetings. For example, if the district is going through a building project, hiring a superintendent, or developing the district budget, the time needed for board meetings may be more extensive. On average, however, you can anticipate spending about nine to twelve hours a month on board service.
Board Business Meeting and Work Session Packets are published via email to the Board on the Wednesday prior to the meeting. Expectations include a thorough review of meeting materials prior to the meeting. Questions regarding meeting materials must be submitted in advance no later than the day before the meeting, to allow the Superintendent time to gather answers.
Conflict of Interest
As a board member, you are expected to uphold the highest standards of integrity by actively avoiding any conflicts of interest in your official capacity. This means refraining from any personal financial involvement in district transactions such as sales, leases, or contracts you oversee or participate in. If a potential conflict arises, you must fully disclose your interests and ownerships, and abstain from decision-making processes related to those interests and ownerships.
You will operate under stringent guidelines to ensure that any exceptions to this rule are handled transparently, with unanimous consent and clear documentation. This approach maintains the community's trust and ensures all decisions are made solely in the best interest of the district and its stakeholders
Robbinsdale Area Schools
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
17

● 210 Administrative Procedure - Conflict of Interest School Board Members
Working as a Board Team
At the heart of educational excellence lies the steadfast commitment of the board, entrusted with duties that shape the very fabric of our district's future. Defined by statute, yet driven by a passion for progress, the board's responsibilities encompass a profound dedication to nurturing thriving learning environments and supporting the endeavors of our administration. Crucial to fulfilling these responsibilities is the collaborative spirit of board teamwork, where collective wisdom and shared vision pave the path toward transformative change. By fostering an environment of mutual respect and collaboration, the board can harness its collective strength to address challenges, capitalize on opportunities, and ultimately, advance the educational journey of every student in our district.
Duties of the Board
● The board has powers and duties specified by statute. The board's authority includes implied powers in addition to specific powers granted by the legislature.
● The board exercises administrative functions. It also has certain powers of a legislative character and other powers of a quasi-judicial character.
● The board shall superintend and manage the schools of the district; adopt rules for their organization, government, and instruction; prescribe textbooks and courses of study; and make and authorize contracts.
● The board shall have the general charge of the business of the district, its facilities and property, and of the interest of the schools.
● The board, among other duties, shall perform the following in accordance with applicable law:
o provide by levy of tax, necessary funds for the conduct of schools, the payment of indebtedness, and all proper expenses of the district; o conduct the business of the schools and pay indebtedness and proper expenses; o employ and contract with necessary qualified teachers and discharge the same for cause; o provide services to promote the health of its pupils; o provide school buildings and erect needed buildings; o purchase, sell, and exchange district property and equipment as deemed necessary by the board for school purposes; o provide for payment of claims against the district, and prosecute and defend actions by or against the district, in all proper cases; o employ and discharge necessary employees and contract for other services; o provide for transportation of pupils to and from school, as governed by statute; and o procure insurance against liability of the district, its officers, and employees.
● The board, at its discretion, may perform the following:
o provide library facilities, public evening schools, adult and continuing education programs, summer school programs, and intersession classes of flexible school year programs; o furnish school meals for pupils and teachers on such terms as the board determines; o enter into agreements with one or more other independent districts to provide for agreed upon educational services; o lease rooms or buildings for school purposes; o authorize the use of school facilities for community purposes that will not interfere with their use for school purposes;
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
18

o authorize co-curricular and extracurricular activities; o receive, for the benefit of the district, bequests, donations, or gifts for any proper purpose; and o perform other acts as the board shall deem to be reasonably necessary or required for the governance of the schools.
Robbinsdale Area Schools
● 201 Policy - Legal Status of the School Board
Board Governance Model
The MSBA Board Governance Model delineates the distinct roles and responsibilities of the board and the superintendent, ensuring both governance and management functions are clearly articulated and understood. It outlines the board's role in setting expectations and parameters through policy adoption, budgeting, contracting, and focusing on student achievement for all. It also highlights the superintendent's responsibilities in providing leadership and supervision, thus ensuring policies and strategies set by the board are effectively implemented.
Standards for Board Leadership
The board is responsible to the community to govern efficiently and lead effectively to provide students an equitable education that results in high achievement. To assist in this journey, see the Standards for School Board Leadership developed by the MSBA. This document outlines best practices for board members and provides the standards we should strive to meet as part of a high-performing board team.
Attributes of High-Performing Board Teams
1. Everyone clearly understands the mission, goals, and role of the board; everyone knows who is, and who should be, doing what.
2. Board members are skilled in group leadership and/or membership functions.
3. Board members have a high degree of trust in one another.
4. Interaction occurs in a supportive atmosphere. Suggestions, comments, ideas, information, and criticism are all offered in a manner that is helpful. Respect is shown for varying team viewpoints.
5. Expectations for the group and its members are high. Goals are stretched.
6. The board is not dominated by an individual or sub-group; everyone participates and has the opportunity to influence the discussion.
7. The board has established procedures for operation including decision-making, conflict resolution, and meeting management.
8. The board is future focused. Decisions are made with long-term consequences and benefits in mind.
9. The board evaluates its performance periodically.
School Board Self-Evaluation
School Board self-evaluations can be an invaluable tool for assessing and enhancing the effectiveness of our governing body. This process allows us to reflect on our collective performance, identifying strengths, challenges, and opportunities for improvement.
Engaging in a self-evaluation enables us to gain insights into individual contributions and understand the dynamics and overall functioning of the board. It also fosters open communication, promotes accountability, and strengthens teamwork among board members. By participating in the process, we can gain insights that will empower us to make informed decisions, enhance our effectiveness in serving the community, and contribute to the continuous improvement of the board's performance and impact.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
19

Robbinsdale Area Schools
● BoE 2024-25 Goals, Agenda and Working Document
● Board approved evaluation tool (TBD) Customize MSBA board evaluation tool to meet our needs
● The school board self-evaluation process and timeline
● The criteria and metrics used to evaluate the board's performance
● The current goals and objectives of the board and their relation to the district's strategic plan
● The role board members play in the evaluation process
● Procedures in place for addressing any areas for improvement identified in the evaluation
● Board's norm for sharing the results of the self-evaluation
● Learn about MSBA's School Board Self-Evaluation in-district workshop.
Role of the Superintendent
The board employs a superintendent to lead and manage the district. The superintendent is an ex-officio, non-voting member of the board and the chief executive officer of the school system. The superintendent's duties and responsibilities are derived largely from three sources: statute, the employment contract, and the job description. Superintendents are responsible for the management of the schools, the administration of all board policies, and are directly accountable to the board. The superintendent must annually evaluate each principal assigned responsibility for supervising a school building in the district. Also, the superintendent may delegate responsibilities to other district personnel but shall continue to be accountable for actions taken under such delegation. Minn. Stat. 123B.143.
Hiring a Superintendent
One of the most critical responsibilities of the board is the hiring of a superintendent. The selection of the superintendent is a decision that shapes the future of the district, influencing the quality of education, the effectiveness of school management, and the overall success of students. The importance of this decision cannot be overstated.
The superintendent's vision and leadership directly impact educational outcomes and the district's ability to achieve its strategic goals. Therefore, it is imperative that the board conducts a thorough and meticulous search process, considering candidates' experience, leadership style, and alignment with the district's values and objectives. This decision requires careful deliberation and a commitment to finding a leader who will foster a positive educational environment, promote innovation, and address the diverse needs of the school community. In essence, the hiring of a superintendent is not just a routine administrative task but a defining moment that sets the course for the district's future.
Duties of the Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
● Job Description
● MN Rules 2020, Part 3512.0510
● RAS Superintendent Vacancy Brochure
Tenets of an Effective Board-Superintendent Relationship
Understanding and fostering a productive relationship between the board and the superintendent is critical for the success of our educational institution. The 17 Tenets of an
Effective Board-Superintendent Relationship provides a comprehensive guide outlining key
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
20

principles and best practices for maintaining a collaborative and effective partnership.
This document highlights essential responsibilities and expectations for both the board members and the superintendent, promoting a clear understanding of each party's role in governance and administration. By adhering to these tenets, our board can ensure decisions are made efficiently, communication remains open and transparent, and the strategic goals of our district are met.
203.7 RAS Policy - Board/Superintendent Relationship Adopted Dec. 2022 States:
1. The Board employs one person-the Superintendent-and holds that person accountable for the performance of the entire District. The Board directs the
Superintendent only through decisions of the Board acting as an entity. The Board delegates authority to the Superintendent to pursue District Goals. The
Board/Superintendent relationship is based on mutual respect for their complementary roles.
2. The Board will make official decisions by formal, recorded vote in order to avoid any lack of clarity.
3. The Board, acting as an entity, may provide direction to the Superintendent in a posted meeting.
4. The Superintendent is neither obligated nor expected to follow the directions or instructions of individual Board members, officers and committees unless the Board has specifically delegated such exercise of authority.
5. If individual board members or board committees request information or assistance without Board authorization, the Superintendent may refuse such requests that, in the
Superintendent's opinion, are disruptive, unreasonable, or require an excessive amount of resources or staff time.
6. If individual board members or board committees request public information or assistance without Board authorization, all board members will receive a notice that the requested information is available.
Evaluating the Superintendent
Evaluation of a superintendent's performance is one of the board's most important responsibilities. The evaluation of the superintendent is an inherent managerial right of the board. Each board member should review the superintendent's employment contract to determine the evaluation-related provisions, if any, that may be included. Done correctly, an evaluation is a useful governance tool that helps drive school improvement. In fact, a high-quality evaluation process enhances positive school-superintendent relationships, improves communication, clarifies leadership roles, creates common understandings, and provides a mechanism for accountability and communication.
Robbinsdale Area Schools
● The superintendent evaluation process is determined between the superintendent and the Board, with a mid-year review in December and a year end evaluation in May, summarized and reported publicly at a June Business Meeting
● BoE 2024-25 Goals, Agenda and Working Document
● BoE 3 Year Agenda 2024-2027
● 2024-2025 District Strategic Plan Priority Work
● Establishing Goals - Superintendent - blank versions
● The role board members play in the evaluation process
● Procedures in place for addressing any deficiencies found during the evaluation process
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
21

Board Communication Guide
Communication Between Board Members
Adhering to guidelines for effective and lawful communication with your fellow board members is crucial. While open and collaborative communication is vital for the board's success, remember that discussions outside of official board meetings must be handled carefully to avoid violating the Minnesota Open Meeting Law (OML). This law requires any gathering of a quorum of board members, where official business is discussed, must be conducted in public and notice must be provided to ensure transparency. (See exceptions in the Closed Meeting Chart on pages 25 - maybe insert a link for the exceptions - (ReNae,
Teri) Therefore, while informal discussions can be valuable for building relationships and exchanging ideas, avoid veering into areas of official board business unless they are part of a scheduled public meeting.
Building Collaborative Relationships - School governance is founded on the belief that a group of very different people representing various constituencies in their district can make better decisions than any one person alone. That diversity is the board's strength. It's best to be open-minded about the opinions of your fellow board members. Your goal should not be to change them to your point of view, but rather to determine the best solution to an issue by working together to try and accommodate all views. You want the students to be the
"winners" - not one board member or another.
Addressing Team Dysfunction - Open communication is critical to the proper functioning of the board. If you feel the board is not functioning well, it may be appropriate to suggest a workshop where the board reviews its ground rules, board policies on board operations, and board/administrative relations that establish how the leadership team will function. If these ground rules and policies are not effective, then consider modifications to them. The board may want to hire a facilitator to assist with discussions to improve the board's working relations. MSBA can help with a custom board in-service tailored to the board's specific situation.
Guidelines for interacting outside a board meeting
● Do Not Discuss Board Business. Focus on topics such as general education trends, personal updates, or board training and development without steering into specifics of pending decisions or board business.
● Be Cautious with Written Communication. Exercise caution with emails, texts, and social media interactions among board members. Avoid group messages or email chains discussing board business that could be construed as a meeting. Avoid responding to
ALL, all communications should go through the chair and superintendent.
● Be Transparent with Your Intentions. Always make the purpose of any gathering clear, ensuring it is social or educational in nature and not meant for making decisions or deliberations that should be reserved for official meetings, not for promoting ownerships/memberships or personal causes.
● Consider Public Perception. When planning to meet outside of formal board meetings, consider how such gatherings might be perceived by the public. It's crucial to remember any appearance of conducting board business or decision-making outside of the designated public meetings could undermine community trust and confidence.
Associated Policy - 205 AP- Open Meetings and Closed Meetings - (Rules under
Communication with the Superintendent - requests for information, through
Superintendent - shared with all, etc.)
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
22

Situation District Protocol
I have general questions about board Contact Chair/Directors/Superintendent governance and/or operation.
I have a concern or questions regarding
Contact Chair/Directors/Superintendent board governance.
I have a concern or questions regarding
Contact Superintendent district operations.
Communication with the Superintendent
You need to establish a productive working relationship with the superintendent. To do this, you need to communicate with that individual. If you have questions, it is better to contact the superintendent and discuss them before the board meeting rather than surprise the superintendent at a public meeting. If the questions are concerns or relate to negative feelings from the community, superintendents appreciate knowing about them in advance of the board meeting so they can come prepared to address them. It is appropriate to call the superintendent, set up a meeting to discuss questions, or send an email for simple questions or requests. When contacting the superintendent, it is important for you to keep the scope of such contacts within reason, to permit adequate time to receive a response, and to generally remain cognizant of the superintendent's other responsibilities and demands on their time.
Disagreements with the Superintendent - Always treat your fellow board members, the superintendent, and other administrators with respect. However, don't be afraid to disagree on an issue. In fact, a discussion about an issue that reflects two or more views usually results in a better decision than if everyone agrees with the first solution offered. Be certain to debate the issue, not the person, and maintain decorum in debate. Find common ground to work together for the benefit of the district/students.
Situation District Protocol
I have general questions about the
Contact Superintendent district.
What if I disagree with a report or presentation to the board from the Contact Superintendent/Chair superintendent or other staff member?
Communication with District Administrators and Staff
You will likely come in contact with district employees, including administrators, teachers, and other staff members. While there's nothing wrong with talking to district staff, keep in mind that complaints should follow the chain of communication. Additionally, understand individual board members do not have authority to direct the work of district staff members.
Directing requests through the superintendent can assist with appropriate prioritization, identifying information that may be readily available, and determining when it may be appropriate to have the full board weigh in regarding certain requests and project ideas.
Discussing Your Child with Staff - This can be a tricky area. No matter what you say about
"speaking as a parent, not a board member," it may be difficult for some teachers to separate your role on the board from your role as a parent. Some board members have indicated their significant other or a designated other takes the lead in speaking to their children's teachers.
Make sure you're not using your position as a board member to secure special treatment for your child. If there are issues you wish to discuss with a teacher, you should follow the
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
23

normal procedures for contacting your child's teacher to discuss them. Keep in mind that you do not relinquish your parental rights now that you're a board member.
Communication with Constituents Including Staff, Students, Parents, and Community
Identify the person contacting you and ensure you have their contact information. Seek to understand the situation or interest but, generally, do not agree or commit to resolve it personally as that is not the role of individual board members. Here are some general expectations:
● Do not agree to confidentiality or commit to limit your options of notification.
● Do not get involved in staff employment or contractual issues.
● Do not attempt to work with a parent who is working on behalf of an organized group rather than on behalf of their own student.
● When applicable, redirect the person to the appropriate staff person or administrator to address the concern. Parent Guide for Addressing Concerns (Ask if the person has been in contact with the appropriate staff person or administrator first, if not, help them find who to contact.
● Be alert to patterns of like concerns and notify the superintendent's office of the possibility.
● If the concern raises governance or public relations questions, contact the board chair in addition to the superintendent.
● Avoid forming and communicating opinions about a board decision before the board has discussed it in a board meeting.
Situation District Protocol
If I get a phone call, email, or stopped in Listen, get contact information, and ask public from a constituent with concerns for the constituent's expectation for regarding the district. resolution.
If I get a phone call, email, or stopped in public from a constituent regarding the Listen, and discuss with constituent.
board's decisions.
If I get an email that is addressed to the
Chair/Superintendent will respond to entire board with concerns from a the constituent on behalf of the Board.
constituent.
There is a situation that requires the Chair/Superintendent will make contact district's legal counsel to be contacted. with legal counsel.
Engaging with the Community
Be proactive. The board can engage key stakeholders by inviting and appointing them to participate in standing and ad hoc committees, advisory panels, focus groups, forums, and surveys to describe a vision for the district, set its goals, plan strategically, align resources with goals, and other actions offering them an opportunity to learn about public education and to influence governance decisions. Encourage all members of the community to visit their schools. Invite them to extracurricular activities, schedule a grandparents' day, and offer tours. In public education, familiarity often breeds support.
Use a variety of means to engage community members, inform them about the district, and learn about their interests, priorities, and concerns. Print and electronic media, social media
(be mindful of emerging trends for younger parents), the district's website, and face-to-face conversations all play important roles in a year-round district campaign to inform and to be informed.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
24

While accentuating the positive - student successes and district progress - don't neglect the negative. Be the first to let the community know about clouds looming on the horizon, and what the board is doing to dispel them. The board should be ambassadors for the district by scheduling dialogues with a cross section of the community - preferably in their neighborhoods as well as in online forums. And be prepared to address negative comments and feedback in a positive, proactive manner.
In addition, consider the varying expectations of the district's constituents. The parents of seniors may have far different expectations than the parents of kindergartners, and elderly community members with no students in the district may want completely different types of communication.
Robbinsdale Area Schools
● 612 RAS Policy: Development of Parental Involvement Plans for Title I Programs
Communication with the Media
It's important to handle media interactions with care to maintain the veracity and unified voice of the board. Maintaining a unified voice is crucial as it ensures all board communications are consistent, clear, and reflect the collective decisions and strategic direction of the board. This unified approach helps to build trust and credibility with the community, stakeholders, and the media.
Situation District Protocol
If I am approached by the media Chair/Superintendent speaks with the regarding a concern or board decision. media on behalf of the Board.
Communication on Social Media
Social media plays a significant role in board members' responsibilities. To use social media effectively while avoiding potential pitfalls, remember your posts should reflect well on your role and set a good example for students and the community. Be careful not to share personal, confidential, or legally protected information about students, employees, or board members. Opt for face-to-face or telephone conversations for private matters instead of using social media. Control your emotions and avoid posting in anger or frustration, as negative statements can have lasting consequences and may lead to legal issues. Always use polite language and refrain from abusive, profane, or offensive comments. Additionally, avoid posting on behalf of the district or sharing commercial messages linked to the district. Use social media primarily for listening, making announcements, and gathering feedback rather than conducting board business. Finally, ensure you comply with all relevant laws and district policies, including those related to acceptable use, harassment, discrimination, and privacy. Your online actions should always reflect the values and responsibilities of your position within the district.
Situation District Protocol
I know about an upcoming district event that should be featured on social Bring it to the Superintendent media.
I saw a post containing false or misleading information regarding the Bring it to the Chair/Superintendent board or district.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
25

Using a District Email
You should use a district email account for your board communications. While this creates another account to monitor, the extra effort is well worth it. As an elected official, your communications related to your office are presumed to be public data unless a provision of law makes part or all of the email private. Your emails may contain private personnel data
(Minn. Stat. 13.43), private educational data (Minn. Stat. 13.32), correspondence with a private individual (Minn. Stat. 13.601), or protected medical information.
Members of the public may request access to public government data for any reason.
Government entities must respond to these requests, and any work required to separate private data from public data, known as redaction, cannot be charged to the requester. The government entity must keep public data readily accessible, and redacting private data is its responsibility. Often, decisions about redaction need to be made by legal counsel, which adds to the expense.
If you use a personal or work email account, access to the public data may require you to turn over the personal or work device on which the emails are stored. (Best practice indicates the use of your district provided email is best for all district communication.) If you use a district email address, the district's computer system can be searched to respond to public data requests. As a result, you do not have to worry about your personal or work devices being unavailable or about your personal or work information being shared with others.
Using a separate email account also separates your board work from personal or business correspondence. This reduces the number of emails that need to be searched in preparation for responding to a public data request, saving the district time and money.
Another reason this separation is helpful is in how you think about your emails related to board work. Remembering the presumed public status of what you write in emails to other board members, the superintendent, and other district personnel about board work can save you from explanations and embarrassment. Public data may end up on the local news or social media, so it is wise to keep this in mind as you compose emails related to board work.
A final consideration is the potential to violate the OML. If a two-way communication about board business occurs among a quorum of the board (or a quorum of a board committee), it results in an OML violation, and the emails create a record of the violation. What is RAS
records management policy/practice for retention of emails? (Marti)
Policy 515 Protection and Privacy of Student Records: Destruction and retention of records by the school district shall be controlled by state and federal law. This policy pertains to students and parents.
Record retention relates to official records, not emails. All email data is subject to the
Minnesota Government Data Practices Act.
Communicating with Board Members Via Email - To ensure OML compliance, you are strongly discouraged from using email to communicate with other board members about issues within the board's realm of authority, except for procedural elements like establishing meeting dates and locations. Generally, you should use email only for one-way communications to and from the board chair or superintendent to distribute information.
What about text messages with board members? private or public? * Insert "Effective
Governance" document, page 5, Item II.1.C, 1-5. Email and Text Messages.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
26

Situation District Protocol
I have questions regarding an email I
Contact the Chair/Superintendent for received from the board chair or clarification, and discussion.
superintendent.
Another board member emailed me Respond only to the board member regarding board business. being cautious in what you say.
I have important information that
Contact the Chair/Superintendent to everyone on the board needs to know prevent serialized meetings.
before the next board meeting.
References for Further Information
● All district policies regarding board operations. For MSBA Policy Services Subscribers, this is the 200 series. (Coming from work with Anne Becker/Policy Committee to the
Board)
● A copy of most recent school board self-evaluation (Recommendation: will cause need to review/change every year - leave this in the Board Self-Evaluation section above)
● The superintendent's employment contract
● The superintendent's job description
● Legal Requirements for School Board Members
● MSBA's Board Development and Recognition Program
● MSBA Legal Requirements for School Board Members
● MSBA Common Acronyms Used in Education
● MSBA Glossary of Educational Terms
● MSBA School Finance Guide
● MSBA Election Manual
● MDE - School Finance Reports
● MN House Research - Minnesota School Finance: A Guide for Legislators
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
27

Board Meetings and Governance
Board meetings are pivotal gatherings that dictate the course of educational policies and decisions within a district. Governed by a structured framework, these meetings encompass various types, from regular sessions to emergency convenings, each serving distinct purposes and following legal mandates outlined in Minnesota statutes. Moreover, the operational norms, roles of board officers, and adherence to parliamentary procedures shape the conduct of these meetings, ensuring efficiency, transparency, and accountability. In this comprehensive overview, we delve into the intricacies of board meetings, covering everything from meeting types and legal obligations to procedural guidelines and public participation protocols. Need a district photograph here.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
28

Meetings of the Board
Types of Meetings
Regular Board Meeting - Regular meetings of the board are held according to an established schedule. The schedule must be kept on file at the district office. No additional notice required unless the date, time, or place of the regular meeting is changed. Minn. Stat.
13D.04, Subd. 1.
Special Meeting - The board may hold a special meeting to conduct business as needed. A
special meeting can provide extra time for presentations, such as review of building-level outcomes, or to deal with an issue that arises but is not likely to be ongoing. A special meeting requires three days' notice (posted on the district's main bulletin board and either published in the official newspaper or mailed/delivered to those persons requesting notice)
of the date, time, place, and purpose of the meeting. Board discussion and action must fall within the posted purpose(s) of the meeting. Minn. Stat. 13D.04, Subd. 2.
Emergency Meeting - The board may hold an emergency meeting called to deal with a situation that requires immediate board consideration and possible action, such as a response to a school fire, a school safety issue, etc. The board determines when an emergency meeting is needed. Good faith effort must be made to notify the news media that have requested notice in the same manner as notice is given to board members. If the situation allows for a three-day notice, hold a special meeting. Minn. Stat. 13D.04, Subd. 3.
District Definitions
● Business: At business meetings, boards take action on policies, contracts, bid awards, personnel appointments, etc. This meeting may be a regular, a special, or an emergency meeting.
● Work or Study Session: A work or study session is a meeting of the board with selected staff or presenters to study and discuss in depth matters which potentially will come before the board. This meeting may be a regular or a special meeting.
● Retreat/Workshop: This is a leadership team meeting for board members and the superintendent, often led by a professional facilitator and dealing with evaluation and/or development issues. This is usually a special meeting.
● Committee: Board Standing and Ad Hoc committee meetings are covered by the OML.
Other committee meetings that include board members may also be covered by the
OML. Minn. Stat. 13D.01, Subd. 1.
● Listening Time: Public forum for community input, where the Board listens but does not respond.
Organizational Meeting - The first meeting in January will be devoted to business required for the proper organization of the board. The agenda may include:
● Seating new members including administering the ceremonial oath of office
● Electing officers for chair, vice-chair (optional), clerk, and treasurer
● Setting the dates, time, and location(s) for regular board meetings. (our School Board generally approves calendar for the coming SY in the spring)
● Setting board member compensation
● Establishing standing and Ad Hoc committees and committee members
● Passing a Resolution for Combined Polling Places (This must be approved and sent to
Hennepin County by the end of December annually)
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
29

● Determining time, place, and manner for public comments (Listening Time - see above)
Other public comments opportunities: Comprehensive Truth in Taxation Public Hearing,
(what others?)
● Designating district depositories
● Selecting the official media sources (newspaper, TV) and district legal counsel - (Is it worth explaining why we name an official media source?)
District Additional Organizational Meeting Topics
Open Meeting Law (OML)
The Open Meeting Law (Minn. Stat. Ch. 13D.) is intended to preserve the rights of the public to observe actions and decisions of its representatives. To satisfy this, all meetings of the board will be open to the public for attendance, and a schedule of the board's regular meetings and working sessions will include times and locations and shall be kept on file at the district office. (See the Closed Meeting Law Chart link below for exceptions). Additionally, the board will ensure a schedule of meetings is posted on the district's website. The OML
applies to all meetings of the public body and, in general, meetings of its committees and subcommittees. For the law to apply, a quorum (a majority of the members of the board)
must be present. Although the responsibility to ensure meetings are properly noticed lies with the board, this operational activity is typically carried out by the staff member who functions as the clerk to the board.
Closed Meetings
Minnesota's OML requires all board meetings to be open to the public with few exceptions. A
public body must begin in an open meeting and state on the record the specific grounds permitting the meeting to be closed and describe the subject to be discussed. A majority vote is needed to close the meeting, with the time and place announced at the public meeting before going into closed session. Please review Minn. Stat. 13D.05 before proceeding to close a meeting. For specific questions, consult with legal counsel.
For more information regarding closed meetings, see MSBA's Closed Meeting Law Chart.
Meetings Conducted by Interactive Technology
In the ever-evolving landscape of governance, technology has become an indispensable tool for facilitating communication and collaboration. Section 13D.02 of the Minnesota Statutes acknowledges this reality by outlining the conditions under which meetings governed by section 13D.01 can be conducted using interactive technology.
For more information regarding remote meetings, see Minn. Stat. 13D.02 Meetings
Conducted by Interactive Technology.
Meeting Operations
Attendance of Meetings
All board members are expected to attend all meetings. However, it is recognized scheduling conflicts will occur. If you are unable to attend, please contact the Chair, Superintendent,
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board.
Acceptable Dress Code and Language
To ensure that both staff and students maintain a respectful and professional environment, it is important that the dress code outlined in the Staff Handbook and 504 Administrative
Procedure - Student Dress and Appearance is consistently upheld by everyone, including
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
30

school board members. All employees are expected to present themselves in a well-groomed, modest, and professional manner. This includes practicing good hygiene, limiting the use of fragrances, and wearing attire that is appropriate for their assignments.
Key guidelines from 504 Administrative Procedure - Student Dress and Appearance that all must follow include prohibitions against:
1. Clothing that bears lewd, vulgar, or obscene messages.
2. Apparel promoting illegal products or activities, particularly those not suitable for minors.
3. Clothing, jewelry, or accessories displaying emblems, symbols, or messages that are racist, sexist, derogatory, associated with gang affiliation, or that promote harassment or violence against others, as defined by 413 Policy - Discrimination, Harassment, and
Violence.
By adhering to these standards, school board members, like staff and students, support a professional and respectful learning environment that fosters inclusivity and safety for everyone.
Location of Meetings
Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center, 4148 Winnetka Ave N, New Hope,
Minnesota 55427
Addressing Others
Robert's Rules of Order/Parliamentary Procedure - titles , Director, chair, and surnames, and/or Mr. /Ms. /Dr.
Presentations
● Robbinsdale Area Schools - District norms related to presentations at board meetings:
This should come from communications office. - (Toya)
● Address the board by chair and director last name
● Board questions may occur at the end of the presentation at the direction of the chair.
Questions should be related to the Board's role of governance.
● If a board member would like to request a presenter to come to speak to the board, contact the superintendent and the board chair prior to agenda setting meeting.
Voting
Each elected member of the board will have one vote. A roll call vote will be taken when required by law or when requested by any board member.
District norms for regular voting: Robert's Rules of Order/Parliamentary Procedure
Quorum of the Board
In order for a board meeting to be official and before any action can be taken by the board, at least a quorum of board members must be present. In the absence of a quorum, the only official action that the board may take is to adjourn the meeting. The gathering of a quorum constitutes a meeting if "members discuss, decide, or receive information as a group on issues relating to the official business of the district."
Parliamentary Procedure During Meetings
Chair and Clerk review/revise from Robert's Rules of Order.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
31

Associated Policies - 203.1 Policy - School Board Procedures/Rules of Order. For MSBA Policy
Services Subscribers, this is MSBA Policies 203 - Operation of the School Board - Governing
Rules and 203.1 - School Board Procedures; Rules of Order.
Presiding Officer
The chair will preside over all board meetings. If the chair is unable to preside, the vice-chair
(if one has been appointed), will perform the duties of the chair. Should both the chair and vice-chair be unable to preside, the clerk will perform the duties of the chair. In the unlikely event that the chair, vice-chair, and clerk are unable to preside, the treasurer will perform the duties of the chair.
Superintendent's Role in Board Meetings
The superintendent is a key person at all board meetings. The superintendent, chair, and vice chair - RAS Governance handbook 1.6 B3 adopted November 2014 commonly plan the meeting agenda together. The superintendent makes certain the meeting room is set up as required and all tools needed are available, such as audio or visual recording equipment, internet access, microphones, etc. Each item on the agenda is introduced by the chair; however, for discussion or action items, the superintendent or a designee is often asked to explain the issue. The superintendent's recommendation should be solicited before a vote is taken.
Board Committees
Committees may be established to address recurring needs of the board. Committees are in place to make the board's work more efficient and effective. They serve in advisory capacities and bring recommendations to the full board for decision making. Board committees should meet as often as necessary to accomplish their work and should meet only when there is substantive work to be done.
Robbinsdale Area Schools - LIST board standing committees LAC, FAC, Policy also list district committees with board participation (287 board membership also - ReNae,
Greta, Molly)
● List and description of board committees including district and community committees with board representation
● Establishing board committees
● Appointing board committee assignments
● Your District Attorney's recommendation regarding the Open Meeting Law's impact on board committees
Associated Policy - For MSBA Policy Services Subscribers, this is MSBA Policy 213 - School
Board Committees. RAS does not have a policy 213 at this time.
Election of Board Officers
Minnesota law is silent on the method of electing officers, except that the election must be by open vote and not by any form of secret ballot. Minn. Stat. 13D.01, Subd. 4. Subsequently, the board may establish its own procedures, including procedures for nominating officers and voting procedures. The board will establish procedures in advance of the meeting so that everyone will know what to expect from the outset. The board must follow the procedures, but the procedures can be changed if the majority of the board members agree.
For more information regarding officer elections, see MSBA's First Monday in January
Handbook.
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
32

Robbinsdale Area Schools
● Procedures for nominating officers - Board members can nominate other board members or themselves.
o What to do if no one is nominated (should it remain as it stands?)
o What to do if a single person is nominated, but declines the office
● Voting procedures including the following special situations -
o Only one board member is nominated o No candidate receives a majority of votes
Guide to Board Meeting Roles and Responsibilities
Effective management and clear understanding of roles are essential for the smooth operation of board meetings. The Guide to Board Meeting Roles and Responsibilities provides a detailed outline of the duties and expectations for board members, the chair, the superintendent, and administrative staff before, during, and after meetings. This comprehensive guide helps ensure all participants are well-prepared, meetings are conducted efficiently, and follow-up actions are clearly defined. It covers everything from agenda preparation and legal advice to maintaining a positive meeting atmosphere and accurate record-keeping.
Data Privacy
It's essential to understand how data privacy relates to board meetings. When discussing district matters in board meetings, we encourage open dialogue. However, we need reasonable restrictions to ensure orderly proceedings and protect individuals' privacy and due process rights. These rights extend to both employees and students of the district. For employees, this includes the privacy of their personnel data. Similarly, students have privacy rights concerning their educational data. To uphold these privacy rights, we have procedures in place for handling agenda items and complaints. If you are unsure if it is private data, ask before disclosing any information.
Associated Policy - 406 RAS Policy: Public and Private Personnel Data, 515 Policy: Protection and Privacy of Student Records (1) , 515 Policy: Protection and Privacy of Student Records (2)
For MSBA Policy Services Subscribers, this is MSBA Policies 406 - Public and Private
Personnel Data and 515 - Protection and Privacy of Pupil Records.
Public Comments to the Board
The board recognizes the value of participation by the public in deliberations and decisions on district matters. However, the board retains the right to determine whether and how public comment may occur.
Robbinsdale Area Schools - protocols regarding public comments at board meetings:
● The board currently allows public comment at the start of the Business meeting for the
Comprehensive Achievement and Civic Readiness (formerly WBWF) presentation, and the Truth in Taxation Public Hearing prior to the first Business meeting in December.
(Recommendation: Board discussion regarding public comment in Business/Regular meeting and/or Work Session)
● Currently RAS has Listening time once a month before the second Business meeting.
● During which part of the board meeting will public comment occur
● Whether and how the public signs up to speak; what information in collected
● District rules/restrictions on public comment Page from notebook with instructions
● Whether and who will read rules/restrictions before the public comment period
● Whether and how the board engages in dialogue with speakers
● Whether and who will follow up with speakers after the meeting
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
33

Associated Policy - For MSBA Policy Services Subscribers, this is MSBA Policy 206 - Public
Participation in School Board Meetings/Complaints About Persons at School Board
Meetings and Data Privacy Considerations. RAS does not have a policy 206 at this time.
Agendas and Minutes
Agenda Procedures
The board will conduct business during meetings through an adopted agenda that advances board work and district goals. The agenda serves as a roadmap for the meeting, outlining topics such as reports, presentations, discussions, and decisions. It is expected all board members will read the agenda and any supporting documents prior to the meeting.
Each board member has the right to request additions, amendments, or revisions to the agenda prior to its adoption, and the board will determine if those changes are to be made.
TBD - Board discussion is required to decide what to do moving forward.
Robbinsdale Area Schools - District norms regarding agendas:
● Who forms the agenda - Chair/Superintendent/Vice-Chair, with Directors submitting items for consideration prior to agenda setting session, Robert's Rules
● Protocols to make additions, amendments, or revisions to the agenda before and during a board meeting - Robert's Rules will be the protocol used to make additions, amendments, motions, etc.
● Procedure for distributing the tentative agenda and supporting documents - Wednesday prior to the Monday/Tuesday meeting via email from the Executive Assistant to the
Superintendent and School Board
● Procedure for asking questions about the agenda and supporting documents - All questions to be submitted to the Superintendent prior to 9 p.m. on the Sunday prior to the meeting via email
● Procedure for addressing clerical errors in the agenda and supporting documents - Email any clerical errors to the Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board prior to noon on Friday prior to the meeting
● Who will inform the board if there are changes to the agenda after its initial distribution -
Friday prior to the meeting via email update from Executive Assistant to the
Superintendent and School Board
Associated Policy - For MSBA Policy Services Subscribers, this is MSBA Policy 203.5 - School
Board Meeting Agenda. RAS does not have a policy 203.5 at this time.
Consent Agenda
The superintendent, in consultation with the board chair, may place items on the consent agenda. A consent agenda is a part of the agenda that includes items typically approved together in one motion. These items may include meeting minutes, routine reports, personnel appointments, and other administrative matters. By grouping these items together, the board can streamline the meeting process and focus on more substantive discussions. If any board member wishes to discuss or vote separately on an item listed in the consent agenda, they can request to have it removed for individual consideration.
Associated Policy - For MSBA Policy Services Subscribers, this is MSBA Policy 203.6 -
Consent Agendas. RAS does not have a policy 203.6 at this time.
Meeting Minutes
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
34

Minutes will be carefully recorded to include all actions of the board and all votes taken at a board meeting by the board's clerk or designee. Minutes do not include discussion or editorial comments.
Robbinsdale Area Schools - District norms regarding meeting minutes:
● 204 RAS AP: School Board Meeting Minutes - as of July 1, 2024, meeting minutes no longer need to be published in a newspaper. Minutes are now published them in the agendas on the website.
Associated Policy - 204 RAS AP: School Board Meeting Minutes For MSBA Policy Services
Subscribers, this is MSBA Policy 204 - School Board Meeting Minutes.
References for Further Information
Robbinsdale Area Schools - Resources that will help board members gain a deeper understanding of their role as a board member and how to work as part of a board team.
Consider creating hyperlinks to each document for easy access to these resources instead of providing printed copies. Resources include:
● Copies of Meeting Minutes from the past year can be found on the website under
School Board Meeting Agendas, Packets & Minutes
● MSBA Sample Board Meeting Agenda
● MSBA School Board Ceremonial Oath of Office
● MSBA Guidelines with Meeting Minutes
● MSBA First Monday in January Booklet (regarding the Organizational Meeting)
● MSBA Parliamentary Procedure Overview
4148 Winnetka Avenue North www.rdale.org
New Hope, MN 5427 763-504-8000 Last Updated: October 2024
35