ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS - INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 281
FINANCIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL (FAC)
MINUTES FOR May 14, 2024
DRAFT
FAC Members
X Lennie Kaufman, Chair X April Gulley
Walter Gray X Katherine Lankford
X Greg Kugler Nicole Sandback
X Edwin Ochoa
School Board Member
X John Vento, Treasurer
District 281 Staff
X Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent
X Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance
X Karylanne Marchand, Business Office Manager
Agenda Item 1: Welcome and Introductions
Chair Lennie Kaufman called the meeting to order at 6:35 p.m., with the FAC members and others noted above in attendance. The meeting was held in person at the Education Service Center. Mr. Kaufman opened the meeting by welcoming the attendees.
Agenda Item 2: Acceptance of Agenda
The agenda had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was properly made and seconded to accept the distributed agenda. The motion passed unanimously.
Agenda Item 3: Approve January 16, 2024, Meeting Minutes
The minutes had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was properly made and seconded to approve the minutes. The motion passed unanimously.
Agenda Item 4: Approve April 29, 2024, Meeting Minutes
The minutes had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was properly made and seconded to approve the minutes. The motion passed unanimously.
Agenda Item 5: Capital Projects (Tech) Levy Discussion
Our outside communications consultant, Jeff Dehler, led a discussion regarding the presentation of
District 281's request for an extension of our current Tech levy. The District is asking voters to approve a ten year extension of its authority to levy taxes in support of maintaining our technology structure and improving safety and security in the school buildings. The tax rate of 4.207% will remain the same, and the levy is expected to generate approximately $7,000,000 of revenue in its first year (fiscal 25-26). Jeff talked about a process to engage the community and provided a facilitation guide to assist with internal and external meetings in support of the upcoming referendum. He asked for FAC feedback regarding the questions being asked, and for any questions the FAC thought should be asked. Jeff also presented information regarding prior referendum voting results and discussed impacts of both passage and defeat of the proposed referendum.

Agenda Item 6: LTFM Projects and Bonding
Alissa Pier discussed the current LTFM plan for 2025. She walked through planned activity at the following schools: Forest, Lakeview, Neill, Spanish Immersion, Zachery Lane, Fair Crystal, and Sandberg.
The total cost of the planned work is approximately $19,000,000.
Michael Hart from PMA Securities, the District's financial advisory firm, then gave a presentation covering:
-LTFM Funding Uses
-LTFM funding options (Annual Levy and LTFM Bonds)
-Anticipated Future LTFM project costs over the next five years (not including Health and Safety Levy)crr
-Projected District Debt & LTFM Tax Levies
-Projected Impact on Residential Property Taxes
-Other Related Items
Agenda Item 7: FY25 Budget Update
Ginny Verbrugge led a discussion regarding the District's plan to close the gap between revenues and expenses in the FY25 General Fund Budget. The goal is to close a $17.4MM gap. She discussed the proposed changes impacting each of the Cabinet departments in the District. A great deal of information gathering, discussions, and constituent input was undertaken to reach the decisions necessary to close the budget gap. This required significant FTE reductions, and other non-personnel expense reductions. She also discussed changes made to expenses in FY24 that would have a positive impact in FY25. Additional changes could still occur as further discussions occur during the approval process. A final budget must be approved before the end of the fiscal year (June 30).
Agenda Item 8: FAC Member Appointments
At the end of this fiscal year, the terms of two FAC members will come to an end. Public notice will be given to solicit applications for three-year terms to fill these positions on the FAC. The two members with expiring terms are Walter Gray and Lennie Kaufman.
Agenda Item 9: Future Meetings/FAC Timeline
This is the final scheduled FAC regular meeting for fiscal year 2024. The August 5 School Board meeting is the date for the presentation of the 2023-2024 FAC annual report to the School Board. The FAC was invited to attend the School Board's budget discussion at their work session on May 20.
Agenda Item 10: Other
A brief discussion occurred regarding the completion of the FY23 audit. Completion was expected before the end of August.
Agenda Item 11: Adjournment
A proper motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting, and the motion passed unanimously.
These minutes respectfully submitted by Lennie Kaufman