ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved April 2, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, March 18, 2024, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: httos://www,rdale,org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes (via Zoom), Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Vento moved to accept the agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Sharing the Success

A. Lakeview Elementary 2024 Destination Imagination (DI) Team - The Awesome Opossums
Lakeview's DI team, The Awesome Opossums, were 1st place winners at the State DI Tournament for the
Fine Arts Challenge at the Elementary Division. Wilbur Winkelman, Principal of Lakeview, introduced the coaches - Jennifer Hollander and Barb Little. The coaches introduced the students present, and mentioned the other students on the team. The Awesome Opossums will be attending the Global DI Tournament in
Kansas City, MO on May 22-25, 2024.

B. Robbinsdale Middle School (RMS Destination Imagination Team
RMS' DI team won 1st place in the Middle School Engineering Division at the State DI Tournament.
Cedric Fuller, RMS Principal, mentioned that coach Rachel Buffington was unable to attend this evening.
Mr. Fuller introduced the students present, who took turns talking about the experience. Though the team qualified for and was invited to attend the Global DI Tournament, they declined due to funding challenges.

Interim Superintendent Report
Interim Superintendent Voight reported the following:
e Achievement and Integration Cultural Nights occurring March 21, April 4 and April 11 at 5:30 p.m. at RMS -
FREE event with dinner included - attendees can participate in drum/dance, sewing and beading e Robins Physically Impaired (PI) team was runner up at the state championship, and three students on the team were named to the All-State Team e RAS spring break is March 25-April 1 - school resumes Tuesday, April 2

Operations

A. Action: Resolution Accepting February 24 Donations in the amount of $21,918.86
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Governance Policy Manual Task Force
Chair Bowman and Clerk Evans-Becker have continued work with Interim Superintendent Voight and Molly
Olson to index and format the School Board Governance Policy Manual by reviewing lists, looking for gaps and setting framework. It will be brought to the Board for review and feedback next month at a Work Session.
They will be meeting again Thursday, March 21, 2024.

C. Policy Update
Governance Policy Committee did not have a quorum at their meeting on March 13. Their next meeting will be on April 9 at 6:00 p.m.

D. School Safety Update
The next meeting of the Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee will be held on Wednesday, March 27 at 4:30
p.m. The School Resource Officer (SRO) updated bill was signed into law last week by Governor Walz. At the next meeting there will be discussion on next steps with the police chiefs of our district cities - and reviewing

language, contracts, policies and money for training. The SROs are not employed by the district - but contracted.

E. Student Achievement Update
John Groenke - Executive Director of Student Services, Dr. Cheryl Ulik - Director of Research, Evaluation and
Assessment (REA) and Matt Pletcher - Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs, provided an overview of the K-5 FastBridge growth data from fall of 2023 to winter of 2024. The team responded to questions afterwards, and noted that a deep dive into the complete information would be brought to a future
Work Session.

F. Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Update
Director Bassett requested a discussion on infrastructure at a Work Session sometime soon, Interim
Superintendent Voight noted she would bring it up at the agenda setting meeting tomorrow.

G. Human Resources (HR) Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of HR, shared the district exit survey questions - noting that the first nine are rating, and the last two are open for giving any details they wish on why they are leaving and/or what would convince them to stay. They have received 113 of these this year, and the survey is required of those retiring and/or resigning.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Vento seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Holmes. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Bassett facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Ten individuals spoke in regard to: principal changes at Plymouth Middle
School (PMS), the impact of staffing cuts at School of Engineering and Arts (SEA) on the students - and the importance of continued funding for the STEAM program, assistant principal layoff at Zachary Lane, request to keep sectionals in all district music programs, and PMS safety and learning environment concerns.

Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
8:50 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed:

hoe Yul? AOD

reta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, ISD 281