(
To: Board of Education
Date: March 4, 2024
Re: Information regarding capital projects levy
In 2014 Robbinsdale Area Schools received a voter-approved Capital Projects Levy - a term used in state law - to fund specific technology and safety projects. This kind of levy helps fund an approved capital project, paid for over 10 years. Last year, Robbinsdale Area Schools collected $5.9
million on the capital projects levy.
Robbinsdale Area Schools current Capital Project Levy authorizes the district to fund:
● Annual purchases
○ Replacement network hardware
○ Annual software subscriptions
● Recurring purchases
○ Devices for students (Chromebooks and iPads), teachers and non-licensed staff
○ Network infrastructure
○ Classroom technology
● Long-term projects
○ ReplacementSMART boards
Proposed Capital Levy amount
○ The existing percentage paid by taxpayers will remain at its current rate of 4.207% - which provides the district approximately $6.64 million annually
○ To maintain current technology investments with capital levy funds, the district would need to budget $4.64 million annually
○ The remaining $2 million in funds would be used for Safety and Security
The Capital Project Levy for SY26 would authorize the district to:
● Maintain current technology standards
● Improve Safety and Security measures in buildings
○ Cameras
○ Secure entrances
The School Board will vote to support one of the following options:
1. Add the capital levy renewal, at the same rate, to the ballot in 2024. The levy would continue to fund technology, and the scope would be increased to add safety and security.
2. Increase the tax rate on the capital levy, to the ballot in 2024. The levy would continue to fund technology, and the scope would be increased to add safety and security at a higher amount.
● If the ballot in 2024 fails, the district will go without these funds beginning in the 2025-26
school year.
● The odd-year election option incurs more costs: leasing equipment from the cities, hiring/training election judges, etc.
Supporting documentation: PMA Powerpoint Executive Summary