Capital Projects
Levy Referendum
Nov. 5, 2024
Informational meeting
Spring, 2024

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.

Local Revenue Situation
Operating Referendum and Capital Project Authorities
2014 Operating 2014 Capital 2018 Operating
Levy Projects Levy Levy
Percent 69% 59% 62%
approval
Value first year $3.5 Million $6.8 Million
$19.1 Million
Value in 2025 $7.0 Million $7.2 Million
$17.6 Million
Year expires 2025 2024 2028
Voters approved annual inflationary increases for the two operating levies. Operating levies decrease as enrollment decreases. $300
per pupil of the 2014 operating levy was shifted by the legislature to a board approved levy. Capital levy rate stays the same, but results in more taxes collected as property values increase.

Definitions
Operating Levy Capital Projects Levy
● Revenue is used for general ● Limited set of eligible purposes operation of the district. including constructing, repairing and improving school buildings,
● Revenue CANNOT be used for technology, and the purchase of building construction or renovation.
vehicles.
● Revenue CANNOT be used for general operation of the district.
Levy vs. Referendum
A levy is the tax you pay; a referendum is the election held to approve the levy.

Tax revenue up for consideration
What is needed:
Ongoing revenue to support operations and capital projects.
Two referendums approved in 2014
are expiring.
● Operating levy
● Capital projects levy

Day-to-day
Operating levies
● Funds support district operations of which approximately 80% of expenses are for staff salaries and benefits
● $1524.26 per pupil is collected, equal to approximately $17.6 million in 2024
● In 2023, the Minnesota legislature authorized school boards to extend operating levies once for up to 10
years
● The Robbinsdale School Board is considering a 10 year extension

Remaining competitive
Capital projects levy
● Tax rate of 4.207% on the net tax capacity of property in the district
● Equal to $7 M in 2025
● In the past 10 years, used for:
○ Annual technology purchases (network hardware, software)
○ Recurring technology purchases
(student and teacher devices)
○ Long-term technology projects
(Smartboards)
● School Board cannot extend
● School Board likely to ask voters to extend in a November 2024 referendum

Capital projects levy options
Of course, the School Board has a few options with regard to the capital projects levy. They could:
● Do nothing
● Renew at current level
● Ask for less
● Ask for more

Current levy and proposed plan
Current Capital Project Levy authorizes the district to -
● Increase technology access for students and staff through annual, recurring and long-term investments:
○ software, applications, digital curriculum and resources,
○ mobile devices, improved technology,
○ technology systems, networks, and infrastructure, and related training.
Proposed Capital Project Levy will -
● Maintain current technology investments
● Improve safety and security
○ Secure Building Entrances
○ Building Technology & Security Infrastructure
■ Includes cameras, card readers and other upgrades

Proposed cost and tax impact
● The tax rate of 4.207% WILL
NOT CHANGE
● The amount of tax residents pay will fluctuate with the value of the property

What is the impact of my vote?
● If approved
○ The levy would continue to fund technology, and the scope would be increased to add safety and security.
● If not approved
○ School Board has yet to determine exactly what will happen, but without the capital projects levy, the district will no longer collect $7 million annually.
○ This could result in the need to shift nearly $7 million in annual technology needs to the general fund, requiring matching cuts to balance the budget.
○ Device replacement is vital because the bulk of the district's textbooks are digital and accessed via a device.
○ Purchasing books to replace digital tools isn't feasible.

The process
Robbinsdale School District is conducting community engagement this spring to help the school board to determine the viability of a capital projects levy referendum renewal:
● Public opinion survey
● Meetings with district staff, parents and community opinion leaders

Questions?

a

BORE Seo TOTAL SCHOOL TAXES COMPARISON FOR RESIDENTIAL HOMES (2024-25)

$1,172 $1,287 7 $1,408 $1,422 $1,473 $1,538 -

Bloomington Wayzata Hopkins North St. Paul, St. Louis Park Rdale Roseville Osseo Brooklyn
Maplewood, Center
Oakdale

Based on average residential home valued at $322,600 for each district

Questions?