To: Board of Education
Date: April 15, 2024
Re: HBCU/HSI Research Experience
Background:
The Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Hispanic Serving Institutions Research Experience
(HBCU/HSI) is a unique opportunity for students to learn about and research these institutions.
Our district's high school students have been offered this research experience through the Achievement and
Integration Department. In addition to the tour, the students are enrolled in a credit-bearing semester-long class. To be considered for this experience, students must participate in a selection and interview process.
Purpose:
Students gain exposure to these institutions' academic excellence and cultural diversity during this educational journey. Each year and throughout this experience, the students share their personal growth and transformation as they navigate new experiences, engage in diverse perspectives, and establish valuable cross-cultural connections with their peers.
Outcome:
Three Achievement and Integration team staff recently guided 20 Robbinsdale Area Schools students on a five-day tour of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic-serving institutions (HSIs).
Students documented their experiences and uncovered truths as they traveled to historical places and universities/colleges in Louisiana and Texas. They met with key figures who played a vital role in the liberties we exercise today.
This experience further outlines the importance of cultural representation in an academic setting. Many of the students who participated indicated that they plan to apply to attend an HBCU.
We visited these colleges and universities:
Louisiana: Southern University at New Orleans(SUNO), Dillard, Southern University at Baton Rouge, Whitney
Plantation, Congo Square and the Backstreet Cultural Museum
Texas: Prairie View A&M University, Texas Southern University, University of Houston, Buffalo Soldiers
Museum.
Next Steps:
They will share highlights of the trip and the education they received. In addition, upon completion of the course, they will earn an elective credit.
1