To: School Board Directors
Re: Critical Incidents Communication Threshold to the BOE
Date: Wednesday, January 31, 2024, updated 1.23.24, Approved 3.4.24
The Superintendent or Superintendent designee will inform the board of a critical incident that has occurred at a building in the Robbinsdale Area Schools.
The following incidents will be communicated to the board if it meets the requirement of a level three and/or four behavior based on the student handbook, the Mn Pupil Fair Dismissal Act, and/or MN statute, and district policy.
Level Three Level Four
● Arson
● Bullying
● Assault
● Fighting*
● Possession/Use of a Dangerous Weapon
● False Fire Alarms or Bomb Reports/
Other than a Firearm
Tampering with Fire Alarm System
● Possession/Use of a Firearm
● Engage in Group Violence*
● Selling Drugs or Controlled Substance
● Engage in Harmful Physical Contact*
● Sexual Assault
● Hazing
● Threats of VIolence
● Engage in Physical Contact with Staff
● Possession/Use of Other Weapons or
Objects, not a firearm and not meeting
Minnesota Statute dangerous weapon definition, with no intent
● Property Damage/Vandalism (Over $500)
● Engage in Substantial Disruption
● Reckless Driving
● Engage in Sexually Inappropriate
Behavior
● Use/Possession of Combustibles -
Secondary
● Use/Possession of Drugs, Alcohol or Other
Controlled Substances
● Engage in Extortion/Robbery
● Make Threats
● Group Violence
Email Notification to the School Board:
● Group violence without police notification.
● Level four incident, group violence, or fights that includes police notification.
● Staff injured by student, other staff or visitor reported monthly
● Narcan is required to be used on a student by district staff.

*Further details will be provided at the completion of the investigation.
Communication to the School Board will include:
The Superintendent or the Superintendent designee will send an email to brief the school board of level 3, 4 incidents and group violence.
● Superintendent will include the district building, the specific incident that has been reported, and if they are aware of police notification.
● A detailed report will be provided within five days and/or once the investigation is completed.
Reports provided in email to the School Board:
● Monthly suspension report that includes suspension on level three and four behaviors.
● Monthly report on staff injured by a student, staff, or visitor.
Debrief Protocol Threshold for Buildings:
Building and district administration will formally use the debrief protocol for level 4 behaviors when emergency personnel are involved.