To: Members of the School Board
From: Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Date: May 19, 2025
Re: Extended Field Trip - International Travel Requiring School Board Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
School Board approve the Armstrong/Cooper Seeds of Change Research trip to Colonia
Libertad, Costa Rica from June 12-21, 2025.
DISCUSSION:
Per policy 610 Field Trips, revised August 21, 2017, field trips outside the United States must be approved by the school board.
Armstrong and Cooper have about 16-18 students, and two chaperones that will go on this trip. The students will be a part of cutting edge research in the middle of the tropical rainforest, where they will collaborate with world renowned scientists who are creating one of the first science immersion programs for high school students.
Outcomes:
● Students will apply the scientific method by designing an experiment based on their own interests, analyzing real-world ecological data to draw evidence-based conclusions
● Students will collaborate with leading scientists in the field of ecology, microbiology and field research, gaining hands-on experience in cutting edge research within a tropical rainforest environment
● Students will experience being a chocolatier for a day - starting with locally grown cocoa beans, and create high end chocolate only sold in the upscale European market
● Students will practice their Spanish and create Caribbean Cuisine with friends of our gracious hosts and become immersed in the local culture
● Students will access a butterfly laboratory that produces Morpho Butterflies to look for new antibiotics - which they may use in their research project if they choose
Students and their families are responsible for the trip fees at about $4400.00 each -
includes 3 university credits, airfare, lodging, food and all excursions. $4250 - without university credits ($50/credit). Financed through fundraisers, family payments and donations.
These students will share their experience after the trip at a School Board meeting in
September or October of 2025.
QUESTIONS:
For questions, please contact Dr. Teri Staloch at 763-504-8012 or teri_staloch@rdale.org