Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
April 7, 2025

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Adventure Club: #1 Summer Camp!
Rdale's Adventure Club was recently honored by readers of the Sun Post as the #1 summer camp-an exciting recognition of the program's ongoing commitment to students and families.
● Serves elementary students with before and after school childcare
● Offers a safe, fun, and enriching environment
● Staffed by caring professionals who foster a sense of belonging and adventure

Student Science/Imagination Fair
Sixth grade students at Sandburg Middle
School showcased science projects at their
Science/Imagination Fair on March 21.
● Students used recycled materials to create projects focused on reducing pollution and litter
● Family members, staff and Sandburg classes were invited to stop by as well

Middle School Debate Success
Rdale Middle School (RMS) students successfully represented their schools at the
MNUDL City Championship on March 26.
● Shy Watkins and Mecko Mix from RMS
took first place in the Rookie division as a team, and Chloe Grant and Ally Trei from
FAIR Crystal earned second place in the
Novice division
● Four students placed in the top ten of the
Rookie Individual Speaker Awards, with
Violet Bruech of Plymouth Middle earning first place.

Q&A with Rep. Omar
Cooper High School was honored to welcome U.S. Congresswoman Ilhan
Omar for an engaging question-and-answer session with students.
● Student leaders at Cooper spent an hour asking a wide variety of questions of Rep. Omar
● Rep. Omar encouraged students to engage in their community and feel confident in themselves

Reimagine Rdale growing
Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 has reached
10,295 engagement touchpoints- 20% of our
50,000 goal-with more opportunities ahead.
● Continuing engagement meetings with middle school students
○ Focus groups with students and staff still to come
● All community engagement meetings are completed and went well

Thank You

uz

BORE akon T h a Nn Ke Yo U