American Indian Education Aid Program Plan Review

This document serves as the foundation for how your district is fulfilling the measurable goals of the program plan, reviewed and approved by the Office of American Indian Education at the Minnesota Department of Education. This document is necessary to submit with your compliance documentation and eligibility for American Indian Education Aid next year.

Minnesota Statutes 2022, section 124D.81, subdivision 3. Additional requirements.

Each district receiving aid under this section must each year conduct a count of American Indian children in the schools of the district; test for achievement; identify the extent of other educational needs of the children to be enrolled in the
American Indian education program; and classify the American Indian children by grade, level of educational attainment, age and achievement. Participating schools must maintain records concerning the needs and achievements of American
Indian children served.

Directions

This document should be shared with the American Indian Parent Advisory Committee (AIPAC) and district staff that work primarily with American Indian students. Both the AIPAC and district staff will meaningfully and authentically collaborate to complete this document which will be uploaded with your compliance documentation due to the Office of
American Indian Education on March 1, 2024. Ultimately, this document is a portion of the Compliance documentation submitted to the Office of American Indian Education as required by Minnesota Statutes 2022, 124D.78, subdivision 2.

Using the approved American Indian Education Aid application that was submitted Fall 2023, communicate how the district has progressed towards all the goals outlined within each narrative that was provided for areas 1-6. Data should be shared with the AIPAC in order for the AIPAC to concur with the district plan. Additionally, the Self-Assessment Rubric for districts is another useful tool for AIPACs to understand programming and to vote on concurrence.

Measurable Goals

These program details must align to Minnesota Statutes 124D,81, subdivision 2.

Focus Area 1: Support postsecondary preparation for pupils

Focus Area 2: Support the academic achievement of American Indian students

Focus Area 3: Make curriculum relevant to the needs, interests, and cultural heritage of American Indian pupils
Focus Area 4: Provide positive reinforcement of the self-image of American Indian pupils

Focus Area 5: Develop intercultural awareness among pupils, parents, and staff

Focus area 6: Supplement (not supplant) state and federal educational and co-curricular programs

Focus Area Measurable Goal Progress towards Is Progress
Goal sufficient for concurrence?
Support We will increase the graduation rate College visits postsecondar for state-identified American Indian planned ) : DS
y preparation students from an anticipated 64.5% in | High school Al Staff for pupils the 23/24 school year to 75% in the involvement in
24/25 school year MTSS, dropout

prevention meetings, Highview meetings,
Individualized
Learning Plans, and working on implementing Native
Youth Council.
American Indian Ed graduation ceremony planning.
1 on 1 meeting on high school level.

Support the academic achievement of
American Indian students

Kindergarten-Grade 1 Literacy
Goal: The percentage of American
Indian students scoring at proficient levels on the FastBridge earlyReading assessment will increase by ten percentage points from fall to spring.
In the fall of 2024, 17 of 49 American
Indian students, 34.7% were proficient.

Grades 2-5 Literacy Goal: The percentage of American Indian students scoring at proficient levels on the FastBridge aReading assessment will increase by ten percentage points from fall to spring. In the fall of 2024, 20 of 74 American
Indian students, 27% were proficient.

Grades 6-8 Literacy Goal: The percentage of American Indian students scoring at proficient levels on the FastBridge aReading assessment will increase by ten percentage points from fall to spring. In the fall of 2024, 17 of 51 American
Indian students, 33% were proficient.

Kindergarten-Grade 1 Math Goal:
The percentage of American
Indian students scoring at

Working on tutoring services, and adding Individual
Learning Plans for elementary and middle school students

proficient levels on the
FastBridge early Math

assessment will increase by ten

percentage points from fall to

spring. In the fall of 2024, 16 of

49 American Indian students,
32.6% were proficient.

Grades 2-5 Math Goal: The percentage of American
Indian students scoring at proficient levels on the
FastBridge aMath assessment will increase by ten percentage points from fall to spring. In the fall of 2024, 29
of 73 American Indian students, 39.7% were proficient.

Grades 6-8 Math Goal: The percentage of American
Indian students scoring at proficient levels on the
FastBridge aMath assessment will increase by ten percentage points from fall to spring. In the fall of 2024, 6
of 49 American Indian students, 12.2% were proficient

Focus Area

Measurable Goal

Progress towards Goal

Is Progress sufficient for concurrence?

Make curriculum relevant to the needs,

interests, and cultural heritage of American
Indian pupils

American Indian Education Changed to an opt-out staff will increase the number | program, all staff are

of students attending student | ;, groups and individual check-ins from 50% to 75%.

equired to report their

student group and 1 on 1
attendance at the end of the 24/25 school year.

ye

Provide positive reinforcement of the self image of
American Indian pupils

In the 24/25 school year,
60% of state-identified
American students will attend two or more cultural programs hosted by the district's American Indian
Education Department.
Attendees sign up for events so we can track our attendance rate. In the 23/24
School Year, 45% of
American Indian Students attended two or more cultural programs hosted by
Robbinsdale American Indian
Education.

Student attendance is being tracked by sign-in sheets. The AIE team has partnered with C & | to track involvement in cultural programs on a systematic level to track student cultural enrichments.

Develop intercultural awareness among pupils, parents, and staff

By the end of the 24/25
school year, 350 Robbinsdale
Area School District licensed staff will have received training in American
Indian-specific professional development from
Robbinsdale American Indian
Education staff. In the 23/24
School year, 569 staff received American
Indian-specific professional development utilizing the
Minnesota Native American
Essential Understandings as a beginning framework

AIE staff continue to host
PD for Rdale Staff and have included PD for probationary staff (new teachers).

Supplement (not supplant) state and federal

educational and co-curricular programs

We are making sure not to supplant funding for our American Indian students with food expenses for American
Indian students only.

We are also following up with Dreamcatchers under Special Ed funding only.

Tutoring is not provided by the district and the

AIPAC approved this and we were encouraged at
TNEC to use as a support to help our American
Indian students.

Approval

AIPAC Chairperson Date

Carthy. Estrada 2-325

Director of Indian Education Date

C epee 2-32-95

Contact us

For more information, please visit our website at https://education.mn.gov/MDE/dse/indian/parent/

Please submit this documentation to: MDE.AIEA@state.mn.us

American Indian Parent Advisor

Committee Member Roster

Committee Member Name, Email, and
Phone

American Indian

Committee Member Role

Primary Area of Representation

763-245-7206

Yes

Cathy Estrada Select one. Select one... Select one...
cathy_estrada1123@yahoo.com Chair Family member of American Indian student
612-803-9196 Yes..

Yvonne Strong Select one... Select one... Select one...

55strongmy@gmail.com Secretary Family member of American Indian student

Kirby Hoberg Select one. Select one... Select one...
kannekimber@gmail.com Yes.. Member Parent of American Indian student
Nyla Hernandez Select one... Select one... Select one...
Yes Member Parent/Guardian of American Indian student
Pablo Hernandez Select one... Select one... Select one...
No Member Parent/Guardian of American Indian student
Aunnie Kramber Select one... Select one... Select one...
nativeaunnie@gmail.com ;
@g Yes Member Parent of American Indian student
Robyn Clifton Select one... Select one... Select one...
robynclifton44@gmail.com
Member Parent of American Indian student
No
Luna Moon Select one... Select one.. Select one...
luna_moon25@rdale.org
Yes Member Student

Committee Member Name, Email, and

American Indian

Committee Member Role

Primary Area of Representation

Phone
Kali Shell Track Select one... Select one... Select one...
ishellt il.
kalishelltrack@gmail.com No Member Parent of American Indian student
Pearl Swift Select one... Select one... Select one...
Jenny Peterson Select one... Select one... Select one...
Select one... Select one... Select one...

Select one... Select one... Select one...

Select one... Select one... Select one...
Select one... Select one... Select one...
Select one... Select one... Select one...

District Employee Sign-in Sheet

Employee Name, Email, and Phone

Employee Title

Beth Tepper beth_tepper@rdale.org
763-504-8026

Director of Achievement and Integration

Tony Patterson tony_patterson@rdale.org
763-504-8186

Assistant Director of Achievement and Integration

Carlie Anderson carlie_anderson@rdale.org

American Indian Climate and Culture Specialist

Laura Potter laura_potter@rdale.org

American Indian Climate and Culture Specialist

Bradley Kenote bradley_kenote@rdale.org

American Indian Climate and Culture Specialist

Angela Gudahl angela_gudahl@rdale.org

American Indian Coordinator

The American Indian Parent Advisory Committee Resolution

WHEREAS, the school board or district has an AIPAC composed of parents/guardians of American Indian children who are eligible for Indian education programs, American Indian language and culture teachers and paraprofessionals,
American Indian teachers, American Indian counselors, American Indian adults enrolled in educational programming, and American Indian representatives from community;

WHEREAS, the school board or district affords the AIPAC the necessary information and the opportunity to effectively express their views concerning all aspects of American Indian education and the educational needs of the American
Indian children enrolled in the school(s) and program(s); and,

WHEREAS, the AIPAC is directly involved with and advises the school board and district staff on Indian Education program planning; and,

WHEREAS, the AIPAC develops and submits recommendations to the school board and district staff pertaining to the needs of American Indian students.

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the AIPAC concurs that the school board and district are compliant with Minnesota
Statutes, section 124D.78, and that the school board and district are meeting the needs of American Indian students.

VA We, the American Indian Parent Advisory Committee, issue a Vote of Concurrence. We attest that the school board and/or district are compliant with Minnesota Statutes and that the school board and/or district are meeting the needs of American Indian students; or,

We, the American Indian Parent Advisory Committee, issue a Vote of Nonconcurrence. We attest that the school board and/or district are not compliant with Minnesota Statutes and that the school board and/or district are not meeting the needs of American Indian students. We have provided written recommendations for improvements to the school board, and we acknowledge that the school board has 60 days from the receipt of these recommendations in which to respond, in writing, to each recommendation.

AIPAC Chairperson Printed Name and Signature
Q
Date

A-3-35

Annual Compliance/Vote of Concurrence or Nonconcurrence

District, Charter, or Tribal School Name: Rebhinsda le Alea Shop ls

The American Indian Parent Advisory Committee Vote

VA The AIPAC Issued a Vote of Concurrence

Date of Concurrent Vote: | - 2D _ 25
Date the AIPAC presented to the school board: Q - 3 -25

The AIPAC Issued a Vote of Nonconcurrence

A vote of nonconcurrence requires the AIPAC to provide specific written recommendations for improvement to the school board. The school board is required to respond in writing to each recommendation within 60 days of the recommendations being put forth. The school board must provide this written response to both the AIPAC and to the
Office of Indian Education.

Date of Nonconcurrent vote:

Date the AIPAC presented to the school board:

Date the written response from the school board is due:

The District/School Does Not Have an AIPAC

The district has not yet formed an AIPAC, but recognizes the need to do so in order to remain compliant with Minnesota
Statutes, section 124D.78. By signing below, the district/school leadership commits to working with the Office of
American Indian Education on committee formation.

Required signatures
*Digital signatures are accepted

ilk Caras Lactu!) 2/3/as
| halo AL 218] 2s

HE
Supen intendent or Charter/Tribal School Director Date

C athe Eacrada R-3-A5

AIPAC Chairperson Date