ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed December 16, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, December 2, 2024 at
10:02 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:

https://www,rdale,org/discover/schoo|-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary

minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Board Topics

Consideration of Allegations Against a Person Subject to the Board's Authority
Liz J. Vieira and Mick Waldspurger from Squires, Waldspurger & Mace, PA.

At the request of Director Brooks, this topic took place in the Work Session space instead of a Closed Session. Ms. Vieira and Mr. Waldspurger facilitated the robust discussion, and outlined options for additional disciplinary action. At the end of the conversation, Board members voiced whether or not they supported additional action as follows:

e Chair Bowman - in favor, the censure was to the item from the report, and it continued

e Vice Chair Holmes - in favor of a second censure with a warning, and disavowing behavior

e Director Vento - mentioned that the censure in August did not have a resolution, and asked if the censure should be reaffirmed in writing (resolution), then disavow, then layout progressive steps

e Directors Brooks and Bassett - not in favor of additional action because it feels punitive

e Director Bassett - not in favor of censure again, but noted to disavow use of color against another would be specific to action

School Board Officers and Committee Assignments for 2025
Due to the late hour, these items were tabled until the Work Session on Monday, December 16, 2024

Work Session adjourned at 11:37 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board