ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS - INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 281
FINANCIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL (FAC)
MINUTES FOR JANUARY 14, 2025
DRAFT
FAC Members
X Greg Kugler, Chair X Edwin Ochoa
Ukee Dozier Nicole Sandback
April Gulley X Sarah Taylor, Secretary
X Katherine Lankford
School Board Member
X Aviva Hillenbrand, Treasurer X Helen Bassett
District 281 Staff
Teri Staloch, Superintendent Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of
X X
Human Resources
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Karylanne Marchand, Business
X X
Officer Services Office Manager
Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director
X
of Finance
Agenda Item 1: Welcome and Introductions
Greg Kugler called the meeting to order once we had quorum at 6:38 p.m., with a motion by
Sarah Taylor and seconded by Katherine Lankford. The meeting was held in person at the
Education Service Center. The meeting included the FAC members and others noted above in addition to one community member in attendance. Greg Kugler kicked off the introductions and Aviva Hillenbrand introduced herself as the new Board Treasurer. Kristen
Hoheisel clarified that this year finance is behind on information, like the audit, compared to where we should be at this time, so there was no information available that hasn't already been shared with the board. Bylaws of the FAC state that the FAC should advise rather than be reactive. The goal is to get caught up and then the FAC will get information ahead of the board so we can advise. Helen Bassett shared that FAC was established as a board committee which not all committees are board established. We talked about one member that has not showed up for 2 years and one newly elected member that has chosen to drop out so we only have 5 FAC members attending consistently. Helen Bassett suggested Greg Kulger determine options for what we do with those who miss and added this as an 'other topic'.

Agenda Item 2: Acceptance of Agenda
The agenda had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was made by Katherine Lankford and seconded by Edwin Ochoa. The motion passed unanimously.
th
Agenda Item 3: Approve November 19 Meeting Minutes
The minutes had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was made by Katherine Lankford and seconded by Sarah Taylor. The motion passed unanimously.
Agenda Item 4: FY24 Audit Update
Kristen Hoheisel shared that the auditors, Abdo, will present at the 1/21/25 School Board meeting as a first read with Feb being the approval of the report. Virginia Verbrugge presented the preliminary results, below are some notes from the report out.
• General fund decrease $6.5M
o ESSER decreased o No reduction of staff although reduced enrollment o Staff contract settlements
• OPEB (Other Post Employment Benefits) - how are those funds used now? This goes away because we've paid this off. Can only be used for retirement cost benefits.
Would like to add this to parking lot.
Agenda Item 5: FY25 Revised Budget
Kristen Hoheisel shared that no presentation is yet available but that the timeline appears rd to have it for the Board on Feb 3 with everything that has already been presented to the board this past November.
Agenda Item 6: FY26 Budget Adjustments Considerations and Actions
6A: Transportation for Mpls Open Enrollment (12/16/24)
• Legislative action from a decade ago paid for transportation for inner Mpls school students to go to first ring suburb schools (deseg dollars). This funding stopped years ago but Robbinsdale continued to support free transportation for inner kids.
• This only covers certain zip codes in Mpls Public Schools
• Magnet schools allow for transportation
• Communication went out that the decision for Mpls is:
o Remove 55405 and 55430 (includes a van to get student to Zachary Ln)

o They can choose a different school than their approved, closest school, but won't get transportation o Mpls uses subsidized metro transit cards
6B: Staffing (1/6/25)
• RAS has had a 1500 kid loss and staffing hasn't reflected that loss
• Kristen shared the current staffing-to-ratios and max class size ratio o Board did not approve increasing class sizes at the last board meeting in
Jan o If we staffed at the top would reduce FTE 81.2 = $6M
• Helen asked how number of principles are selected o Based on student population o Compensatory funds cannot be used to bring in assistant principles o Doing a lot of studies around baseline staffing and service models st
• Kristen shared the staffing timeline - January 21 school board approves staffing ratios with allocations shared end of March
6C: FY25 Budget Recommendations (5/6/24)
Kristen shared the presentation from May. Some of this presentation was brought to the town hall - evaluating what was supposed to be done but wasn't.
• $17.4M ($3.2M was actualized) that was to be eliminated last year was not done and we cannot just replicate that work from May. Need to reevaluate as we reimagine Rdale. Dr Staloch shared that the $14M we now need to actualize.
• some things that were imagined for last year are just not possible to be actualized at this point in time this year. The new study will look at last year's study to see if any of those recommendations can still be actualized.
• We know we have a deficit and will be in statutory operating debt - this is just to balance the 1 year so we don't go further into debt.
• Reimagine Rdale effort should write the plan for the Statutory Debt requirement.
6D: RAS Program Evaluation Return on Investment
Sarah Taylor asked for examples of what programs are included in the evaluations. IB,
BARR, elementary orchestra, Catalyst, magnet schools, AP (AP 9-12 at AHS is not the same at Cooper because Cooper is IB), AVID (100% of students in AVID graduation from high

school). For programs it's easy to get the dollars on the expense side but hard to value the benefits in dollars
6E: Middle School Reimagine (pending)
6F: Bells Time and Walk Zones (pending)
Agenda Item 7: Enrollment Procedure Change
Kristen Hoheisel shared the student enrollment pathways flow th
• Applications can be submitted Oct 1 to Jan 15
• Building placed will be based on where they live
• Open enrollment and in-district enrollment will be cut off in Sept then held until winter break for second semester enrollment changes. Versus today, students can move around all year which causes disruptions in the classroom and for students when there is inconsistent lesson plan timing between buildings/virtual.
• These changes do not impact those who move into the district during the school year.
Agenda Item 8: Future Meetings
The currently scheduled meetings for the remainder of the fiscal year are as follows:
• March 18, 2025
• May 13, 2025
• TBD - Presentation of 2024-25 report to the School Board
Agenda Item 9: Other
1. FAC quorum conversation - options we discussed, no decision was made:
a. Do we recruit for 2 new members to get us to 7 as stated in the bylaws b. Do we recommend a change to the bylaws to be only 5 members
2. Next Town Hall is on 1/23 at AHS - content is being finalized.
3. Reimagine Rdale - Sarah Taylor asked if the FAC will be part of any of those sessions. Dr. Staloch will talk through if/when it makes sense. When the group focuses on demographics and facility sessions, it may be an opportunity to pull FAC
in.

Agenda Item 10: Adjourn
A motion to adjourn the meeting was made by Katherine Lankford and seconded by Sarah
Taylor at 8:10 p.m. The motion passed unanimously.
Meeting minutes submitted by Sarah Taylor