Northport
Rdale Proud
Lisa Barnholdt Erin Finn
Principal MTSS/BARR Coordinator

Northport Belief Statement
We empower each other to create a culture of learning through high expectations and positive relationships to achieve our unique potential.

BARR Implementation at
Northport Elementary
What is BARR?
BARR is a grant funded, research-based framework designed to improve student outcomes through
● Fostering positive relationships
● Focusing on student strengths
● Developing teacher collaboration
● Leveraging teacher expertise and family communication
Essential Components
● Small Block
● Big Block
● Community Connect
● U-Time

Program Goal
Create a supportive school environment that enhances student achievement, reduces behavioral needs and promotes equity.

PLC - ILT -
MTSS
BARR unites our values and goals while creating a streamlined process of communication.
The program cultivates positive relationships and high academic expectations; it allows us to focus on the whole child.

Small Block Big Block Community Connect
Small Block meets weekly during PLC
time, discussing student strengths, needs, SMART goals and interventions or strategies. Every student is discussed at this level of our MTSS
process.

Small Block Big Block Community Connect
Small Block meets Big Block conducts weekly during PLC twice monthly time, discussing meetings in cross student strengths, grade level teams.
needs, SMART goals Students are moved and interventions or from Small Block to strategies. Every Big Block when new student is discussed at interventions are this level of our MTSS needed.
process.

Small Block Big Block Community Connect
Small Block meets Big Block conducts Community Connect weekly during PLC twice monthly is the team that works time, discussing meetings in cross to address student student strengths, grade level teams. needs within our needs, SMART goals Students are moved school, collaborating and interventions or from Small Block to with community strategies. Every Big Block when new partners (People's Inc.
student is discussed at interventions are and Connect for School this level of our MTSS needed. Success).
process.

Success Stories
● 100% of students and staff have participated in 16 U-Times
● Over 40% of students were discussed by collaborative groups
201 - Small block
45 - Big Block
14 - Community connect

Success Stories
● Growth data in Kindergarten: early reading,
79% at typical to aggressive growth
● aMath is exceeding our target goal
○ 70% typical to aggressive growth
● Third Grade math growth data
○ 73% typical to aggressive growth

Success Stories
● Improved culture of learning
○ Office call data decreased to lowest at NPE since we've been keeping track March 2022
● Over 100 students nominated to be
"Trailblazers"
● Over 490 people attended our last family engagement event

SIP Process: Success Stories
● BARR Big Blocks
○ "That was the coolest thing I have done in my teaching career."
● Fewer students being referred to child study than previous years
● Principal and Coordinator have been asked to serve on BARR panel discussion at national conference

Testimonial from BARR team
"Northport Elementary Staff have shown true dedication to the BARR model by engaging students in U-Time lessons, having intentional student and data driven discussions during block meetings, and encouraging a school-wide strength-based approach while supporting every student in both academic and non-academic areas."
-Katie Bruns, BARR Systems Coach

Questions?

) 3

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools

Questions?

ipaJos BETTER RESULTS? =

shark. By &
. =

S
a @