Minutes of Truth-in-Taxation Hearing and

ROBBINSDALE Public Comment

Area Schools
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved December 16, 2024

The Truth-in-Taxation Hearing and Public Comment of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held
Monday, December 2, 2024, beginning at 6:03 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education
Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: httos://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch
School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, Re Nae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent.
Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Approval of the Agenda
Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Vento moved to approve the agenda

and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Motion carried with a voice vote

Truth-in-Taxation Hearing and Public Comment

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Minnesota Statute 275.065 requires that a district must hold a public hearing to discuss the proposed property tax levy for taxes payable in a subsequent year, as well as the district's current year adopted budget. The district is also required to adopt the proposed levy and allow for public comment and questioning immediately after presenting. Ms. Hoheisel presented, then opened the floor for public comment - no one came forward to speak.

Adjourn the Meeting

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.

Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at

6:27 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

som Lact Lotant ada Date /Y/S7 OY
chool Board Clerk, Independent School District 281