Reimagine Rdale:
Vision 2030 Update
Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction
Superintendent Dr. Teri Staloch, July 21, 2025

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these
Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Vision 2030 is On Track
We're right where we need to be.
Engagement has been deep and broad, and the Vision Team is using that input to shape critical recommendations.
● 17,000+ engagement points from students, staff, and community
● Vision Team is synthesizing all input to drive recommendations
● Work is grounded in what students need now - and in the future

Vision Team: Helping Shape Rdale's Future
The Vision Team is focused on four key areas that will shape the future of our district -
● Academic Programming: Our core business is teaching and learning!
Determine what is most important.
● Outcomes and Measurements:
Supporting the development of a
Portrait of a Graduate and providing input on student success measures.
● Enrollment Assumptions: Right-sizing the district for the future.
● Facilities: Exploring options for school closures and building needs

Vision Team's Recent Work
June and July meetings explored how learning and space intersect -
grounding our work in what students need and where learning happens.
● June 17: Site visits sparked deep discussion about building use and learning environments
● July 10: Focused on academic priorities, student experience, and graduate readiness
● Insights from both meetings inform emerging recommendations

Vision 2030 and the SOD Plan
The Vision Team's recommendations could potentially support components of the
Statutory Operating Debt (SOD) plan
● Vision Team recommendations and a
SOD plan
● The School Board provides direction from Vision Team recommendations
● Administrators create action plans
● Final SOD plan due to MDE by Jan. 31,
2026
● Academic, facility, and staffing recommendations must align with fiscal planning

Board Decision-Making Timeline
Board decisions will be needed after
Vision Team recommendations are shared in September to prepare for SOD
approval by January, 2026.
● Final Vision Team recommendations to board: Sept.
23
● Decision-making window: late
September - December
● Final actions required by Jan. 20 for
SOD plan deadline of Jan. 31

R
ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools
Tentative Timeline to Reimagine Rdale
We face a $20 million deficit and we remain committed to creating a future our students want, need and deserve.
Together, through community input and collaboration, we'll shape solutions and priorities for a stronger district.
FEB. MAY
TASKS JAN. MARCH APRIL JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT.
District Study Teams
2025-26 Budget
Reductions/Refinement
Vision 2035 Team
Applications
Community
Survey
Community
Engagement
Vision 2035 Team Study
Report Writing
Recommendations

Thank You

uz

BORE akon T h a Nn Ke Yo U