BYLAWS
OF
ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS - INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT
281 FINANCIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL
ARTICLE I: NAME
The name of this organization shall be the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory
Council.
ARTICLE II: PURPOSE OF THE COUNCIL
The purpose of the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council ("Council") is to provide financial advice and support to the Robbinsdale Area School Board and senior administration that is consistent with the mission of the district. The Council is accountable to the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools.
The Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council will review and evaluate the district's economic conditions and future budget assumptions. The Council will utilize the district's financial planning model to review revenue and expenditure projections for future budget years. The Council may also make recommendations to the Robbinsdale Area
School Board on future budget targets and assumptions. The Council will use the district's equity policy to inform its advice to the Executive Director of Finance Chief Financial Officer and the Robbinsdale Area School Board.
The Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council shall also support the Executive
Director of Finance Chief Financial Officer and the Robbinsdale Area School Board in creating and developing consumer-oriented presentations regarding the district's finances. Upon approval of the School Board, the Council may present information to the community.
ARTICLE III: POLICIES
A. The Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council shall be nondiscriminatory in regard to race, color, family status, creed, religion, national origin or gender. The
Council shall be noncommercial and nonpartisan. Attempts will be made to have the
Council membership reflect the demographic profile in the Robbinsdale Area School
District.
B. All Council reports, findings, and recommendations will be available to the public.
C. The Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council will work within state and federal statutes, school district statutes, School District policy and accepted financial practices.
1

ARTICLE IV: ME
MEMBERSHIP
The Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council shall consist of:
● Five to Seven residents of the communities serviced by the Robbinsdale Area
School Board
● Treasurer of the Robbinsdale Area School Board
● Executive Director of Finance Chief Financial Officer
The Robbinsdale Area School Board shall solicit applications from District residents to be appointed to serve on the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council.
A. The preferred qualifications for Applicants include:
1. A strong background in finance, economics, or accounting
2. Experience in business and financial matters
3. Experience in school finance
4. Ability to declare no conflicts of interest
The Executive Director of Finance Chief Financial Officer will be available to help potential applicants assess their qualifications.
B. Members of the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council will be appointed to the Council by majority vote of the Robbinsdale Area School Board.
C. Members of the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council will be appointed at the first meeting of the Robbinsdale Area School Board in June; all appointments, regardless of when they are made during the school year, are retroactive to June of that year.
D. For each new fiscal year, the prior year's Chair or the Executive Director of Finance
Chief Financial Officer will convene the first meeting of the Robbinsdale Area Schools
Financial Advisory Council. The Council will appoint a Member of the Council to serve as Chair for that fiscal year. Any mid-term vacancy will be filled at the discretion of the
School Board Chief Financial Officer.
E. Members of the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council shall serve a term of three years; the Council will determine how the terms will be staggered to support continuity on the Council. The Council and/or the Chief Financial Officer will determine renewal of each member at the time of their expiring term.
F. Any member missing two Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council meetings within a school year will be contacted by the Executive Director of Finance
Chief Financial Officer to discuss the expected commitment of the member to the
Council. In the event that a member resigns from the Council or does not actively participate for either one-half year or two meetings, the application and appointment process noted above will be followed will be at the discretion of the Chief Financial
Officer.
G. The School Board may, by majority vote, remove any appointee at any time, with or
2

without cause, each by a separate motion.
ARTICLE V: MEETINGS
A. The Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council shall meet a minimum of four times a year. The Executive Director of Finance Chief Financial Officer will work with the Council to determine meeting dates, according to the school calendar.
B. Special meetings of the Financial Advisory Council may be called at the discretion of the Chair, in conjunction with the Executive Director of Finance Chief Financial Officer, or, by a majority of the members of the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory
Council.
C. Written notice of each meeting of the Financial Advisory Council shall be delivered to each member of the Council prior to such meeting. Subject to each Council member's consent, notice may be delivered electronically.
D. All meetings of the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council shall be open to the public.
E. Meetings will include, but not be limited to, the analysis of financial information and the development of recommendations for long-term financial planning.
F. The Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council will strive to reach consensus on recommendations that will be made to the Robbinsdale Area School
Board.
G. In the event that unanimous consensus cannot be achieved, the matter may be put to a vote. All members of the Council are voting members. A quorum of members present is required for a vote to proceed. A quorum is more than half of the Council's membership.
H. Minutes of all meetings shall be prepared by the Chair or designee of the Chair and filed with the Executive Director of Finance Chief Financial Officer and forwarded to all members of the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory
Council.
ARTICLE VI: EXPECTATIONS
3

A. TheExecutive Director of Finance Chief Financial Officer, in consultation with the
Chair, will provide agendas for meetings with input from other Members of the
Council.
B. Members of the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council will prepare for each meeting by reviewing agenda materials.
C. Members of the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council are expected to develop an understanding of the district's educational programs and budgetary and regulatory constraints.
D. Members of the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council are expected to contact theExecutive Director of Finance Chief Financial Officer if unable to attend a meeting.
E. At no time shall confidential Robbinsdale Area School District information or personal information be given to or acted upon by the Robbinsdale Area Schools
Financial Advisory Council
F. The Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council shall not make unsubstantiated, subjective judgments or recommendations. In the course of their duties, the Executive Director of Finance Chief Financial Officer and School Board
Treasurer are free to use the findings of the Council.
G. Information regarding the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council's analysis of financial information and development of recommendations for long-term fiscal planning will be presented to the School Board in time for budget planning.
H. An annual summary of the recommendations from the Robbinsdale Area Schools
Financial Advisory Council will be distributed by the Finance Department and posted on the district's website.
ARTICLE VII: MEMBER INSERVICE
A. An overview of the Robbinsdale Area Schools Financial Advisory Council responsibilities and accomplishments will be presented annually to the School Board
(usually June of each year).
ARTICLE VIII: AMENDMENT
A. These bylaws may be altered, amended, or repealed, and additional bylaws adopted, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members present at any meeting of the
Council at which a quorum is present, and any such proposed changes will be forwarded for approval to the School Board.
September 2021 April 2025
4