Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

MP oBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting

**Approved April 7, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held

beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: httos://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim Holmes, and
Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda.

MOTION: Director Holmes moved to amend the agenda to add a discussion regarding 524 Policy - Internet,
Technology and Cell Phone Acceptable Use and Safety to vote on addition it for discussion at a future Study (Work)
Session, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Discussion regarding adding 524 Policy to a future Study (Work)
Session will be added as the new Operations Item D., prior to committee reports on the agenda tonight.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long

Voting against: Bowman, Hillenbrand

Motion prevailed with a 4-2 voice vote.

MOTION: Director Holmes moved to accept the amended agenda, Director Hillenbrand seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Long

Voting against: Bowman

Motion prevailed with a 5-1 voice vote.

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique

potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates

career, articulated trades and college ready. She provided an update on activities, which included a presentation

highlighting:

e Fourteen Rdale students being selected for American Choral Directors Association of Minnesota (ACDA-MN)
Honor Choirs, showcasing their vocal talent among the state's best young singers

e March 3-4, 2025 - Sonnesyn Elementary fifth graders showcased their creativity and coding skills at the
Sonnesyn Arcade

e@ March 13, 2025 - Cooper High School's We Are One choir concert, celebrating community and diversity -
featuring a powerful collaboration with BorderCrosSing

e March 13, 2025 - Noble Math Night at Hy-vee was a fun, hands-on event where families engaged in real-world problem-solving math activities

e PMS and SMS band teacher Nicki Whelan is using crocheted chickens to inspire her students to master their musical scales - using color-coding like karate belts, matching skill levels, there are 266 chickens currently in progress between the two schools

e Seven Dreams Education Foundation Bird Bash raised $50,000 for projects that directly benefit Rdale students and staff - $28,841 in hands-on learning grants, and $30,000 to choir and theater arts projects

e Reimagine Rdale:
o Student engagement meeting launched with the high schools, and will continue with the middle schools o Have had community engagement meetings with most of our affinity groups, meeting with Latino group at

RMS on March 19

o Vision 2030 Team will have their next meeting March 25

Strategic Plan Priority Work - Theme B: Student Engagement and Wellness

John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services

Toni Boyden, Director of Student Services

Bo Powell, Director of Security

Mr. Groenke, Ms. Boyden and Mr. Powell provided a presentation regarding Strategic Plan Theme B: Student
Engagement and Wellness, specifically about the following objectives:

e Improving student-staff connection - to help all students feel welcome everyday e Strengthening practices around student, staff, and school safety

Budget Update

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Dr. Staloch and Ms. Hoheisel provided a brief presentation as an update to the budget process: following the timeline, reviewing what has been completed to date, preliminary reduction targets for ESC, schools and transportation.

Operations
A. Type III Transportation Agreements for FY26
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Hillenbrand seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long
Voting against: Holmes
Motion prevailed with a 5-1 vote.
B. Second Read/Action: Policies originally presented on March 3, 2025, including:
e 409 Policy - Employee Publications, Instructional Materials, Inventions and Creations e 423 Policy - Employee-Student Relationships e 502 Policy - Search of Student Lockers, Desks, Personal Possessions and Student's Person
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.
C. Resolution for Acceptance of February 2025 Donations in the amount of $53,212.63
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.
D. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
The next Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, March 18, 2025 at 4:30 p.m.
in the Boardroom at ESC.
E. Discussion about adding a topic to the April 7, 2025 Study (Work) Session Agenda
MOTION: Director Holmes moved addition of a discussion regarding to 524 Policy - Internet, Technology and Cell
Phone Acceptable Use and Safety to the April 7, 2025 Study (Work) Session Agenda, Director Bowman seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Holmes, Long
Voting against: Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand
Motion prevailed with a 4-2 vote.
F. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Report
Chair Evans-Becker and Clerk Bowman have continued to meet to finalize the manual draft. They will be providing paper proofs of the document to all Board Directors for review and feedback to be discussed at a Board meeting in early May.
G. Policy Committee Report
At the Policy Committee Meeting on March 12, 2025 they discussed policy work flow, timeline for policy review, and requested that staff members reviewing policies attend the meeting(s) where discussion is scheduled regarding the policies they are reviewing.
H. Administrative Updates
There were no Administrative Updates this evening.0

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Holmes facilitated the Listening Time held at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Sixteen individuals submitted requests and spoke in regard to the following topics:

Changes to RSI bell times (4 speakers)

Cutting the Family Literacy Program (4 speakers)

Academic improvement

Budget cuts

Special education funding

Technology and security referendum

Justification for posting for the position of Assistant Superintendent

PMS school counselors, assistant principals, adult mentors with staff consistency
Hiring budget

Questions regarding the future of the district

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Director Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote. Meeting was adjourned at 9:12 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Date: Lub) Z. L325