Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
March 17, 2025

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Rdale choir students shine
Fourteen Rdale students were selected for
American Choral Directors Association of
Minnesota (ACDA-MN) Honor Choirs, showcasing their vocal talent among the state's best young singers.
Upcoming performances:
● Grades 4-6: March 29 at St.
Michael/Albertville High School
● Grades 7-8: April 5 at St.
Michael/Albertville High School
● Grades 9-10 performed on Feb. 15 at the
Minneapolis Convention Center

We Are One choir concert
Cooper High School's We Are One choir concert on March 13 celebrated community and diversity, featuring a powerful collaboration with BorderCrosSing.
● BorderCrosSing residency brought unique musical experiences to students
● A showcase of inclusivity, unity, and artistic excellence in Rdale
● Also: CHS theater presented 42nd
Street, and AHS Something Rotten

Sonnesyn students code
Sonnesyn Elementary fifth graders showcased their creativity and coding skills by designing and developing their own video games as a capstone project.
● Students begin learning programming in first grade, building skills each year.
● Fifth graders independently or collaboratively coded games based on their interests.
● Students shared their work at the
Sonnesyn Arcade on March 3-4.

Noble math night adds up to fun
Noble Elementary's 2nd annual Math Night at
Hy-Vee was a fun, hands-on event where families engaged in real-world math activities-plus cake and ice cream!
● Families participated in a math scavenger hunt with real-world problem-solving
● Noble staff helped guide activities, making math fun and accessible
● A great community-building event with smiles, learning, and sweet treats

Noble math night adds up to fun

"Hatching" musical skills
At Sandburg and Plymouth Middle
Schools, band teacher Nicki Whelan is using crocheted chickens to inspire students to master their musical scales.
● Students earn crocheted chickens by memorizing musical scales
● Chickens are color-coded like karate belts, matching skill levels
● 266 chickens are currently in progress across both schools

Bird Bash raises $50,000
I had the distinct honor attending and presenting at this year's Seven Dreams
Education Foundation Bird Bash, which raised $50,000 for projects that directly benefit Rdale students and staff.
● This school year, Seven Dreams has awarded $20,841 in hands-on learning grants as well as $30,000 to choir and theater arts projects
● Grant applications for 2025-26 are open through April 9

Student engagement expands
Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 continues to grow, with student engagement now underway and ongoing staff meetings shaping the district's future.
● Student engagement launched with meetings at Armstrong and Cooper
● Staff engagement continues
● Held well-attended community meeting on March 10, which was geared for our Indigenous community

Reimagine Rdale growing
Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 has reached
8,105 engagement touchpoints-16% of our
50,000 goal-with more opportunities ahead.
● Next Vision Team meeting: March 25 at
AHS
● Upcoming community events:
○ March 19 - Robbinsdale Spanish
Immersion (Latino Community
Engagement)
○ March 24 - Virtual Meeting
○ March 26 - Meadow Lake Elementary
● More student and staff meetings set

Thank You

a

"ae Noble math night adds up to fun

uz

BORE akon T h a Nn Ke Yo U