La RoBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved June 3, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, May 19, 2025, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long,and Dr. Kenneth Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

MOTION: Director Holmes moved to amend the agenda to add a vote to rescind use of legal counsel from further
Board meetings, unless requested by the Board Chair or Superintendent, Director Long seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Long, Wutoh

Voting against: Bowman, Evans-Becker

Motion prevailed with a 5-2 vote.

MOTION: Director Holmes moved to approve the amended agenda, Director Long seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

Rdale Proud: Showcase - FAIR School Crystal - Media Arts

Zoraba Ross, Principal

Christopher Murnane, Visual and Media Arts Specialist, Cooper Alumna

Quinn Johnson, 6th Grade Student

Malachi Foster, 7th Grade Student

Shayra Martir Chong and Sophia Totino, 8th Grade Students

Information was provide regarding the animation projects for the middle school grades, and the students shared their videos. The Outdoor Classroom Garden Plaque project process was shared, along with examples of the students'
finished product. Mr. Murnane shared his journey through Rdale schools, into his career and back to the district teaching.

Student Report: Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Research Experience

Tony Patterson, Assistant Director of Achievement and Integration

Richard Baysay Jr. and Rose Vang-Lohnes, Juniors at Cooper High School

Alex Horne, Junior at Robbinsdale Academy-Highview

Ikhlas Mohamed, Sophomore at Armstrong High School

Mr. Patterson explained how students apply for the opportunity to take the HBCU Research Experience course, then participate in the trip, and report to the Board. The students shared their highlights from the trip to Maryland,
Washington D.C., and Virginia - and how they were impacted by the trip and the course.

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. She provided an update on activities, which included a presentation highlighting:

e May 10, 2025 - American Indian Education Program's annual Spring Powwow

May 15, 2025 - FAIR School Pilgrim Lane's production of The Lion King KIDS!

May 16, 2025 - Cooper Awards Ceremony

Armstrong receiving a BARR THRIVE Scholarship for the 2025-26 school year

Throughout the month, attending staff meetings to recognize years of service and retirees

Rdale received Certificate of Excellence in Financial Reporting by the Association of School Business Officials
International for FY24 - the 24th consecutive year receiving this honor

Graduation Rate Report 2024
Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs
Mr. Pletcher provided a high-level overview of graduation data from the SY24, followed by questions and discussion.

Operations
A. Server and Storage Refresh plus Backup, Recover and Cybervault
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval, Director Hillenbrand seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.
B. Resolution for Acceptance of April 2025 Donations - $22,581.01
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.
C. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
No report, pending direction from the Board.
D. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Report
Chair Evans-Becker and Clerk Bowman have finished their final review of the manual draft, and shared it with the
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board for formatting. Prior to the last meeting in June, copies of the draft will be provided to the Board for review over the summer - with the expectation that it will go on the Study (Work) Session agenda in August or September for final discussion and feedback.
E. Policy Committee Report
The next Policy Committee brought forward the following policies for first read, with the recommendation that they would come for second read/action at the Tuesday, June 3, 2025 Business Meeting:
101 Policy - Legal Status of the School District
101.1 Policy - Name of the School District
102 Policy - Equal Educational Opportunity
103 Policy - Complaints: Students, Employees, Parents, Other Persons
104 Policy - Mission Statement*
The proposed changes to each of these policies will bring them into alignment with the Minnesota School Boards
Association (MSBA) model policies.
*MOTION: Director Holmes moved to amend the language of 104 Policy section IV, second sentence.
Director Bowman Moved to send the policy back to the committee to determine recommended language change,
Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, Wutoh
Voting against: Holmes
Motion prevailed with a 6-1 vote.
H. Administrative Updates
1. K-5 English Language Arts (ELA) Curriculum Review - Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and
Multilingual Programs e December 2024-April 2025 - Literacy Committee formed with representatives from K-5, EL, SpEd, administration and instructional leaders e March-April 2025 - Vendor meetings, demonstrations, special education, literacy team review, and principal input sessions e May 2, 2025 - Vendor fair for all elementary staff and community members e Resources reviewed: EL Education (K-5, comprehensive curriculum) and Wit & Wisdom (K-5, knowledge-building curriculum) with Functional Phonics & Morphology (foundational resource for grades
4-5)
e May 19, 2025 - Recommendation to adopt Wit & Wisdom and Functional Phonics & Morphology

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Director Wutoh seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Holmes, Long

Motion prevailed with a 4-2 vote.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Holmes facilitated the Listening Time held at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Sixteen individuals submitted requests and spoke in regard to the following topics:

FAIR Crystal start times and administration

Equity in the Robbinsdale School District/Family Literacy

Executive hiring, bonuses, raises

School Board Policy 599AP, V. Provision for Automatic Enrollment, A. Siblings
Family Literacy Program (three)

Students' stories - how FLT closure will impact them and moral injury to employees
Appealing the decision to eliminate the AP position at FAIR School Crystal (two)
Decisions being made by the superintendent and board

Cuts to support staff at PMS for 25-26 school year

Health office staffing

Family letter

FLT - give us one more year

Al generated reading of names at graduation

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Holmes moved to adjourn the meeting, and Director Bowman seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote. Meeting was adjourned at 9:27 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Are;
ExecutiveA

Schools endent and School Board

stant to the Super

Date: - 2 - 2025"