Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Jan. 6, 2025

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Debaters Advance to State
Achievement: Alison Wandmacher
(Armstrong) is Section 6AA Champion, and Lily
Plahn and Tessa Lenoch (Cooper) are runners-up, all advancing to their 2nd MSHSL
State Tournament.
Legacy: 14 consecutive state appearances for
Armstrong, 21 for Cooper.
Next Steps: Competing at the 2025 MSHSL
State Tournament (Jan. 17-18, U of M) and
NSDA National Debate Tournament.

AHS' Black Student Union
Overview: Armstrong High School's first-ever
Black Student Union launched this fall, led by students and supported by staff.
Leadership: Spearheaded by alumna Jessica
Stewart-Robinson ('13) and teacher Timothy
White, fostering inclusivity and empowerment.
Impact: Over 80 students joined to create a safe space for cultural exploration, leadership, and celebrating Black excellence.

Northport Winter Bazaar
Event: Northport Elementary Winter
Bazaar brought together families, staff, and community partners.
Highlights: Local vendors, student crafts, and cultural performances celebrated community spirit.
Impact: Strengthened connections and showcased the importance of collaboration within the Northport community.

Northport Winter Bazaar

ESC Winter Luncheon
Event: Annual ESC Winter Potluck was held Friday, Dec. 20.
Highlights: The event adds festive fun with an ugly sweater theme.
Impact: The ESC Winter Potluck fosters team connection and holiday cheer, strengthening staff camaraderie and community.

Kindergarten Enrollment Fair
Purpose: Showcase Rdale's exceptional learning opportunities and welcoming community to attract spoon-to-be kindergarten families.
When: 10 a.m. to noon, THIS Saturday, Jan. 11,
2025, at FAIR School Crystal
Community Engagement: Families will have the chance to connect with school leaders, and staff, while enjoying fun activities and valuable resources.

Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030
Purpose: Building long-term fiscal stability and reimagining Robbinsdale Area Schools to meet student needs. Pillars of the work:
● Vision 2030 Team: A 40-member stakeholder team driving the process.
● Community Survey: Gathering large-scale feedback from district families and community members.
● Community Engagement: Robust efforts to ensure diverse perspectives shape the future.

Update: Community Survey
Development: Final stages, piloted with parents, community members, and staff.
Launch Date: Survey deployment begins Jan. 13.
Outreach: Postcards mailed to all community addresses to ensure easy access for all stakeholders.
Purpose: First step in gathering collective hopes and dreams for student success and the district's future.

Update: Reimagine RdaleVision
2030 Team
Mission: Develop long-term recommendations for district priorities and resource allocation.
Application process: through Jan. 12, 2025; over 45
submissions received so far
Meetings: Jan. 29, Feb. 25, March 25, April 30, May 20,
June 17, July 10, Aug. 13. Final recommendations presented to the school board in September 2025.
Diverse Representation: Open to students, staff, families, and community members.

Update: Community Engagement
Building Meetings: Dates set to engage students and staff in January and February.
District-Wide Events: Community engagement events begin in March.
Pop-Up Sessions: Smaller events to meet stakeholders where they feel safe and comfortable.
Inclusivity: Engagement available in other languages to ensure accessibility.

Budget Reduction Efforts
Town hall meeting
● 6:30-8 p.m., Thursday, Jan. 23, 2025
● Armstrong High School (no livestream or recording)
Feedback: Continuing to collect input via a feedback form shared since November.
Ongoing Work:
● Open enrollment and transfer deadlines now semester-based.
● Minneapolis busing limited to Cooper, RMS, and Noble.
● Studies on class ratios, programming, and services ongoing.

Thank you

X\
\
N

=e" Northport Winter Bazaar

EO

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

Tentative Timeline to Reimagine Rdale

We face a $20 million deficit and we remain committed to creating a future our students want, need and deserve.
Together, through community input and collaboration, we'll shape solutions and priorities for a stronger district.
ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

TASKS JAN. FEB. MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT.

District Study Tearns _ - jl -
neRencne
Reductions/Refinement
Vision 2030 Team
Applications > |

Community Survey

Community Engagement

Vision 2030 Tearn Stuy _- {lll
Report Writing Gum
Recommendations TY

a

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools

Thank you