Summary Minutes of Study (Work) Session
ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Reviewed January 21, 2025

A Study (Work) Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, January 6, 2025 at
9:16 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
httos://www.ri ra/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim
Holmes, and Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Budget Update - Staffing Discussion

Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources

Ms. O'Hern provided a budget update regarding staffing for the purpose of helping the Board:

e Understand the comparison of staffing and enrollment between FY15 and FY25

e Gain insight into FY25 FTE allocations, and evaluate the potential impact of adjusting class size ratios
With the outcomes:

e Engage in shared learning regarding the staffing and enrollment between FY15 and FY25

e Be informed about our current staffing allocations at each site

e Understand teacher contract language and how it relates to class size

e Understand implications and provide input on increasing class size ratio

The Board asked questions and provided feedback. After the discussion, most Board directors do not agree with increasing class size ratios, but support staffing at the top end of the current class size ratios.

Finalizing Board Committee Assignments

Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair

The Board worked to finalize their committee assignments, with Director Hillenbrand now on the Board.
Work Session adjourned at 10:36 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board