Member Holness introduced the following Resolution and moved its adoption:

RESOLUTION OF DISAVOWAL OF DECEMBER 10, 2024 SUN POST LETTER AND
ADOPTING STATEMENT IN RESPONSE

WHEREAS, on December 10, 2024, the Sun Post published a Letter to the Editor from Director
Sharon Brooks ("Letter"); and

WHEREAS, the Letter misrepresents the role of the School Board Treasurer; and

WHEREAS, the Letter suggests former Board Treasurer John Vento engaged in misconduct by failing to make a statement about the District's "$20 million budget error that has occurred under
Treasurer Vento's watch;" and

WHEREAS, the School Board desires to take official action by approving a public statement in response to the Letter; and

WHEREAS, when the Board approves an action, it speaks with one official voice regardless of whether an individual member voted for or against the action;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the School Board of Independent School District
No. 281, as follows:

1. The School Board disavows the December 10, 2024 Letter to the Editor from Director
Sharon Brooks published in the Sun Post. The statements in the Letter do not reflect the
Board's opinions, values, norms, or processes.

2. The School Board adopts the following as its official statement in response to the Letter:

The School Board thanks Director John Vento for his service as a Board Director and Treasurer.

Minnesota Statutes Section 123B.14 requires a school board to elect certain officers at the board's first meeting each year. The duties of the elected Treasurer are identified in that statute. The statute also allows a school board to delegate those duties to a non-member of the Board.

At the Board's January 8, 2024 Organizational Meeting, Director Vento was elected
Board Treasurer. That same meeting, the Board delegated the duties of the
Treasurer to the Assistant Director of Finance, who was also designated as "Deputy
Treasurer." Most, if not all, large school districts assign treasurer duties to an employee rather than a Board Member because staff have training and experience in the complexities and day-to-day requirements of school finance. Consistent with the Board's Governance Process, the primary role of the Treasurer is to serve as

256

Chair if the Chair, Vice Chair, and Clerk are absent and to be the Board's representative on the Financial Advisory Counsel.

The Board disagrees with the characterization of the District's budget error as an
"unaccounted for $20 million." As has been explained to Board Members individually, the Board as a body at public meetings, and the public, the error resulted from an inadvertent double-counting of compensatory revenue received from the state. The suggestion that such funds are "unaccounted for" implies that such funds existed and were misspent. That is simply not the case here. The Board sees no need for a "legal investigation or formal report" on the Treasurer's service, as requested by Director Brooks in her letter, because there is no evidence or complaint that the budget error was within the duties of the Board's Treasurer.

The Board takes its financial position seriously. The Board strives to focus on working through our difficult path forward to build RAS into the thriving district we know it can be. It is the Board's sincere hope that it can continue to do so without distraction.

3. The School Board also feels compelled to address the inappropriate comments that Director
Brooks made about Director Long in her Letter to the Editor. The comments that Director
Brooks made were demeaning to Director Long, they minimized the seriousness of
Director Long's initial complaint, and they could reasonably be viewed as a form of unlawful retaliation in response to the original complaint of discrimination based on protected class status. The School Board has twice censured Director Brooks for similar inappropriate conduct. That action has been ineffective at addressing Director Brooks'
behavior. Minnesota law authorizes the School Board to fix the compensation of its members. In an effort to address Director Brooks' behavior and to prevent the same or similar behavior from recurring in the future, the School Board hereby decreases by onefourth the amount of annual compensation that Director Brooks will receive during 2025.
Thus, rather than receiving a stipend in the total amount of $7,800 for 2025, Director
Brooks will receive a stipend in the total amount of $5,850.

The motion for the adoption of this Resolution was duly seconded by Member Bowe,

and upon a roll call vote being taken, the following members voted in favor of the motion:

prectors . Bowman, Evins ~ Becker, Hillenbrand,
Homes, anel LON)

And the following members voted against the motion: DIfec-be- Puisect-

Whereupon the Resolution was declared duly passed and adopted.

257