Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
August 4, 2025

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these
Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Freedom Schools students celebrate
National Day of Social Action
100 students from Rdale's CDF Freedom Schools rallied alongside students from 11 other
Minnesota Freedom Schools programs at the
Minnesota State Capitol, joining a national movement to affirm that public education is a public good worth fighting for as part of the
National Day of Social Action on July 23.
● Students marched from St. Paul College to the Upper Mall of the Minnesota State
Capitol, where they took part in a public Q
and A session with several state lawmakers and participated in Harambee.

Lt. Gov. Flanagan visits Freedom Schools
Rdale's CDF Freedom Schools program was honored to host Lt. Gov. Peggy Flanagan as a special guest for Harambee on July 7.
● Harambee, meaning "all pull together" in
Swahili, is the daily opening activity during which scholars sing, dance, cheer, and get excited for a day of learning.
● She read the book "Change Sings" by
Amanda Gorman to our scholars and answered a few questions.

Engagement in the Community
Rdale staff and school board members are active in the communities of our district this summer at festivals and celebrations.
● Golden Valley Pride Festival on June 7
● Whiz Bang Days Parade on July 13
● Crystal Frolics Family Festival on July 26
● Great Rdale Get Together on August 9
● Golden Valley Festival on September 13
● Robbinsdale Main Street Meet & Greet on September 15

Engagement in the Community

Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030

Aug. 9: Great Rdale Get Together
Join us for a free, fun-filled community celebration on Saturday, Aug. 9, at Lakeview
Terrace Park in Robbinsdale. The Great Rdale
Get Together is an opportunity to reconnect, celebrate, and build community.
● Free community event for all ages
● Saturday, Aug. 9, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
● Held at Lakeview Terrace Park,
Robbinsdale
● Family-friendly activities and opportunities to connect

Thank You

rt\ e@ e
"ee Engagement in the Community

may
A gaat
=

Ly |

"ee Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030

uz

BORE akon T h a Nn Ke Yo U