To: School Board Members
From: Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Date: July 30, 2024
Re: Email communication protocols for messages sent to School
Board members and additional communication protocols with
Superintendent
Objectives
Develop a response mechanism to:
1. Increase community awareness of Board email response protocols;
2. Provide a more personal, direct communication from the School Board Chair (on behalf of the entire board) to the person(s) who wrote the board;
3. Promote a timely response through collaboration between School Board Chair and Executive
Director of Communications to write/send the response;
4. Ensure that all School Board Directors stay in the communications loop.
Communications protocols
Strategic Direction C: Collaboration and Partnerships
To promote how to effectively share district-related concerns, the school district website provides information about the recommended communication process when people have questions or concerns. The web page provides guidance for communicating issues at various levels:
classroom, school, operational/management, or district. The web page also outlines the parameters for stakeholders to address the School Board at Listening Sessions.
Providing a more personal response in a timely way
● The group email address, school_board@rdale.org includes all School Board members plus the Superintendent, Executive Assistant to Superintendent/School Board and Executive
Director of Communications.
● Messages sent to that email address will receive the following automated response:
Thank you for contacting the Robbinsdale School Board. We want to let you know that all
School Board Directors have received your email. We value and appreciate your input and are grateful for your engagement with our district.
If your email requires a response or if you've requested one, I will get back to you as the School
Board Chair. If needed, I may also forward your email to the appropriate administrator to ensure your questions or concerns are properly addressed.
We appreciate your engagement and thank you for your support.
Sincerely,

Robbinsdale Area Schools Board Chair
● The Executive Director of Communications will consult with others as needed and the communications team will prepare a response for the board chair's review and consideration.
● The School Board Chair will send an email response to the sender. The message will be cc'd to the school board email address, to ensure that the remaining Board members stay in the communications loop.
● If the sender chooses not to use school_board@rdale.org and instead sends to individual
School Board Director email addresses, the School Board Chair will forward the message to the Superintendent and Executive Director of Communications (who otherwise would not receive it) so that a response can be created in line with these communications protocols.
If an individual School Board Director receives a communication and is not sure if anyone else received it or would like assistance with a response, the School Board Director is encouraged to contact the Superintendent who will connect with the Executive Director of Communications.
The School Board Chair should be copied on the response to the sender.
By Email
The School Board's group email address is school_board@rdale.org. When you use this email address, your message will go directly to every School Board member, the Superintendent, the
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board, and the Executive Director of communications. In most cases, within three business days you will receive a specific reply from the School Board Chair, responding on behalf of the full board.
Contacting Staff with Questions or Concerns
In many cases, questions or concerns can be most effectively handled by district staff who have specific knowledge about the relevant issue. A guide with this is the information on our website.
Communication to Support School Board and Superintendent Relationships
● School Board members will be invited to meet with the Superintendent for a 1:1 monthly meeting to review school district business and upcoming School Board Meetings. If agreeable to the School Board members, these meetings may take place in school buildings to allow time to learn and see about what is happening with students and staff.
● School Board members and the Superintendent will communicate in the manner that best meets the urgency and need of the communication. This may include a phone call (all
School Board members have and are encouraged to call the Superintendent's cell phone rather than the office number), text or email. Communication via texts should only be used to request a review of an email or to support quick updates. In email communications to the Superintendent, School Board members will also include the School Board Chair.
● When School Board members send a question or request to the Superintendent, she will respond to all board members with the original request and the response so all board members have the same information.
● School Board members have one employee, the Superintendent; therefore, all requests or

work direction will come directly to the Superintendent. Depending on the nature of the request, the Superintendent may ask clarifying questions of the entire board to ensure that the work direction is made by the will of the School Board. School Board members will not send requests that would be seen as work direction to any staff members. Additionally, it is the expectation that if School Board members email a staff member, the Superintendent is included.