Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
July 7, 2025

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these
Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

AHS Senior Earns Merit Scholarship
Armstrong High School senior Maren Faust has been awarded a prestigious National
Merit college-sponsored scholarship from
Grinnell College to support her undergraduate studies in astrophysics.
● One of 2,900 students nationwide selected by sponsor colleges
● Scholarship provides $500-$2,000
annually for up to four years
● Over 6,900 recipients awarded nearly
$26 million in scholarships this year

CHS Marching Band Performs
The Robbinsdale Cooper High School Marching
Band represented Minnesota and the Rdale community on a national stage, performing July
4 in the 2025 National Independence Day
Parade in Washington, D.C.
● The parade is the largest Fourth of July parade in the country
● The group was nominated by U.S.
Representative Ilhan Omar (MN-05)
● Participation followed months of focused practice and preparation

CHS Marching Band Performs

Facilities Updates Underway
Summer is an important time for facility maintenance and upkeep across the district. This work ensures our buildings remain safe, functional, and welcoming for students and staff.
● Ongoing summer maintenance guided by long-term facilities plan
● Roofing repairs underway at
Robbinsdale Spanish Immersion and Cooper High School

Facilities Updates Underway

Aug. 9: Great Rdale Get Together
Join us for a free, fun-filled community celebration on Saturday, Aug. 9, at Lakeview
Terrace Park in Robbinsdale. The Great Rdale
Get Together is an opportunity to reconnect, celebrate, and build community.
● Free community event for all ages
● Saturday, Aug. 9, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
● Held at Lakeview Terrace Park,
Robbinsdale
● Family-friendly activities and opportunities to connect

Thank You

=x« CHS Marching Band Performs

X\
\
X

ROBBINSDALE Facilities Updates Underway

uz

BORE akon T h a Nn Ke Yo U