ROBBINSDALE Minutes of the 2025 Organizational Meeting

Area schmaals The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved January 21, 2025

An Organizational Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools was held Monday, January 6, 2025,

beginning at 6:01 p.m. A recording of the meeting can be found at https://rdale.org/discover/school-board, School Board
Meeting Webcasts tab.

Noted prior to roll call: Acting Vice Chair Holmes stated that ReNae Bowman resigned as Board Chair on January 3,
2025. Per Board by-law IV. Duties of Officers, Item B. Vice Chair, items:

1. Perform the duties of the Chair in the event of the chair's temporary absence.

2. Assist Chair as requested in the execution of Chair responsibilities.
Acting Vice Chair Holmes performed the duties of the Chair to get the meeting started.

Call to Order and Roll Call of the Organizational Meeting

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim
Holmes, and Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order at 6:01 p.m.

Acceptance of the Organizational Meeting Agenda
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of the agenda, Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.

Ceremonial Oath of Office for Newly-Elected School Board Directors
Acting Vice Chair Holmes presented the newly-elected School Board Directors Bassett, Evans-Becker, and Hillenbrand.
The ceremonial oath of office was recited by the directors.

Election of Officers for 2023

Elect Chair

Acting Vice Chair Holmes called for nominations for the office of School Board Chair for 2025 the standard three times.
Acting Clerk Evans-Becker nominated herself. A second was not required.

Director Long nominated Acting Vice Chair Holmes. A second was not required.

There were no further nominations, and nominations were closed.

Voting in favor of Holmes: Holmes and Long

Voting in favor of Evans-Becker: Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, and Hillenbrand.

Acting Clerk Evans-Becker received the most votes, and was declared the Board Chair for 2025 by 5-2 vote.

Elect Vice-Chair

Newly-elected Chair Evans-Becker called for nominations for the office of School Board Vice-Chair for 2025 the standard three times.

Director Bowman nominated Director Long. A second was not required.

Director Bassett nominated Director Brooks. A second was not required.

There were no further nominations, and nominations were closed.

Voting in favor of Long: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, and Long

Voting in favor of Brooks: Bassett and Brooks

Director Long received the most votes, and was declared the Board Vice Chair for 2025 by 5-2 vote.

Elect Clerk

Chair Evans-Becker called for nominations for the office of School Board Chair for 2025 the standard three times.
Director Bassett nominated Director Hillenbrand. Hillenbrand declined the nomination.

Director Brooks nominated herself. A second was not required.

Director Bowman nominated herself. A second was not required.

There were no further nominations, and nominations were closed.

Voting in favor of Brooks: Bassett and Brooks

Voting in favor of Bowman: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, and Long.

Director Bowman received the most votes, and was declared the Board Clerk for 2025 by 5-2 vote.

Elect Treasurer

Chair Evans-Becker called for nominations for the office of School Board Treasurer for 2025 the standard three times.
Director Bowman nominated Director Hillenbrand. A second was not required.

Director Bassett nominated herself. A second was not required.

There were no further nominations, and nominations were closed.

Voting in favor of Hillenbrand: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, and Long.

Voting in favor of Bassett: Bassett, Brooks, and Holmes.

Director Hillenbrand received the most votes, and was declared the Board Treasurer for 2025 by 4-3 vote.

The Board recessed briefly due to an outburst from a community member, then resumed after that person left the building.
Other Business

The School Board was asked to delegate Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer for the duties and position of Deputy
Treasurer.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.

'ove' ointment of Assis' Cle
The School Board was asked to reappoint Molly Olson as Assistant Clerk to the School Board.
MOTION: Director Long moved approval, Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.

Approval of 2025 Board Compensation
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of keeping Board compensation the same, Director Bassett seconded the

motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.

Approval of Resolution Authorizing the Use of Facsimile Signature and Surety Bond

MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval, Director Bowman seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.

Designation of Identified Official with Authority (IOWA) to comply with Minnesota Department of Education (MDE) State

ie] [1
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval to designate Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent, as the district 281 |OwA,
Director Long seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.

Review of 209 RAS Policy - Code of Ethics, and Statement of Compliance
During this meeting, a review of 209 RAS Policy - Code of Ethics and signing of the corresponding Statement of

Compliance was implemented as an annual item, per the language in the policy adopted on December 16, 2024 stating:
"All Robbinsdale School Board members must sign, annually, a statement certifying that they have read, understand, and agree to abide by the Code of Ethics, and affirm their commitment to hold themselves and other Board members accountable for any violation(s) of it."

MOTION: Director Holmes moved to approve, affirm, and sign the 209 RAS Policy Statement of Compliance form,
Director Bowman seconded the Motion.

Director Bassett abstained from voting due to wanting further discussion. Director Brooks abstained from voting due to the policy not listing the Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) model. Motion prevailed with a 5-0 vote.

The following directors signed the Statement of Compliance: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, and
Long.

Review of 201 Administrative Policy: Conflict of Interest School Board Members

Chair Evans-Becker requested board members to declare any conflict of interest, per 201 RAS Administrative Procedure
(AP). Director Hillenbrand declared a family member being employed by the district's Adventure Club program. No other
Board members declared conflicts of interest.

Discussion of Meeting and Procedures Format
Dr. Staloch reviewed the goals outlined for meeting procedures and format with the Board, which included:
e Bringing recommendations from the Board attorneys' October 10, 2024 memo from professional development into practice e Improve meeting efficiencies

e Proposed changes to the Board Business Meeting and Study (Work) Session agendas
The Board requested further discussion of these items at a Study (Work) Session soon.

Adjournment of Organizational Meeting
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval, Director Bowman seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 7:18 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

vem ct to Jone Date: Clan 2, 4625

ReNae J. Bowgfan, School Board Clerk

Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved January 21, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, January 6, 2025, beginning at 7:23 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: https://www,rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand,
Kim Holmes, and Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 7:23 p.m.

Approval of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda.

MOTION: Director Holmes moved to approve the Business Meeting agenda, and Director Bowman seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

Rdale Proud - Showcase: Robbinsdale Spanish Immersion School (RSIS) - Unlocking Bilingual Brilliance:
Navigating Biliteracy, Centering Equity, and Transitioning to Dual Language Programming

Dr. Alejandra Estrada-Burt and Ken Habel, Co-Principals at RSIS

Natalie Garcia and Beth Villalobos, Biliteracy Teacher Leaders

Ms. Estrada-Burt, Mr. Habel, Ms. Garcia and Ms. Villalobos presented the work they have been engaged in the past five years in implementing a biliteracy language acquisition model, showcasing the components of the model and how implementation of it is allowing them to unlock and uplift the bilingual brilliance of their students.

Rdale Proud - Showcase - Plymouth Middle School (PMS) - Highlights and Achievements

Tamiko Thomas, Principal at PMS

Nina Jonson, Theatre Program Director

Liz Freeman, Theatre Program Producer

Student Performers

Ms. Thomas shared how PMS is reimagining connection and relationship-building between students and staff, staff to staff, and students to students. The site improvement plan (SIP) places emphasis on using data and relationships to enhance student outcomes and connections.

In addition, Ms. Jonson and Ms. Freeman provided information regarding the PMS Theatre Program.

Students performed a number from their upcoming winter musical, "Singing in the Rain," which will run January
29-February 1, 2025 in the Robbinsdale Middle School (RMS) auditorium.

Superintendent's Report
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Superintendent Staloch reminded everyone of the Rdale mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, then shared some of the highlights since the last meeting, including:
e Northport Winter Bazaar was held December 18 with help from community partners and volunteers to make it a success e ESC Winter Luncheon and ugly sweater day was held December 20
e Kindergarten Enrollment FAIR will be held Saturday, January 11, 2025 from 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. at FAIR
School Crystal e Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030:
o Community survey begins on January 13, and we're hoping for 50,000 responses!
o Vision 2030 Team applications are being accepted through January 12 - seeking diverse representation of our district to attend monthly meetings between January-August, working to bring final recommendations to the
Board in September o Community Engagement Meetings to foster inclusivity in the process:
u Building meetings for students and staff in January and February a _Districtwide meetings beginning in March

a Smaller pop-up sessions throughout e Budget Reduction Efforts:

o Town Hall Meeting scheduled for January 23, 2025 from 6:30-8:00 p.m. at Armstrong - we want to hear from our community

o Feedback form

o Ongoing Work:
= Open enrollment/school transfer deadlines are now semester-based u Minneapolis busing is now limited to Cooper, RMS and Noble m Studies are being done on class sizes/ratios, programming and services

Operations
A. First Read: 200 Series of Policies
Questions and feedback were received from the Board regarding the following 200 series policies:
e 208 RAS Policy - Policy Development, Adoption, Implementation and Review e 214 RAS Policy - Board Professional Development and Out-of-State Travel
It was requested that directors send feedback regarding these policies directly to Chair Evans-Becker in writing to get to the Policy Committee. It is intended that these policies will come for second read/action on January 21,
2025 at the Business Meeting.
B. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
There was no report this evening. The committee is working to schedule their next meeting.
C. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee Report
There was no report this evening.
D. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Report
The RAS Board Handbook is ready for review. The link to the document will be sent to all Board members for review prior to bringing back for discussion at a Study (Work) Session.
E. Policy Committee Report
The next Policy Committee Meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, January 15, 2025 from 6:00-7:00 p.m. in room
207 at ESC. At that time, Director Hillenbrand and Director Holmes will join Director Bowman on the committee.
F. Administrative Reports
There were no reports this evening.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items are considered routine in nature and are enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Board member so requests, in which the item will be removed as a Consent
Agenda item, and addressed. Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved, seconded by Director Hillenbrand, to approve the following Consent Agenda items:

e Draft minutes for the December 18, 2024 Business Meeting and Work Session

Licensed Staff Personnel Report

Non-Licensed Staff Personnel Report

Bi-Monthly Disbursement Report for January 7, 2025

Disbursements for December 2024

Due to questions from Director Holmes surrounding the Non-Licensed Staff Personnel Report in regard to Special
Education staffing turnover.
MOTION: Director Hillenbrand moved to pull that report for a separate vote, with Director Holmes seconding the

motion with a question.

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a roll call vote for the Consent Agenda, excluding the Non-Licensed Staff Personnel
Report
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.

Director Holmes requested an update on what the district is doing to support the Special Education program in regard to the staffing turnover, and what is being done to relieve the stress of staff. Superintendent Staloch asked if it was the will of the Board to receive such an update, and four of seven directors indicated interest. An update will be provided to the Board.

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a roll call vote for the Non-Licensed Staff Personnel Report
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.

Closed Session

MOTION: Director Bassett moved to recess to a closed session pursuant to Minnesota Statute 13D.05, subdivision 3
(b) for attorney-client privilege regarding Brothers Fire Protection v. NEO Electrical Solutions, LLC, et al., v.
Robbinsdale Area Schools, Director Long seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

The Business Meeting recessed at 8:45 p.m.
The Business Meeting reconvened at 9:09 p.m.
MOTION: Director Bowman moved to approve a mediated payment of $12,000.00 to Brothers Fire Protection,

Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjourn the Meeting
MOTION: Director Hillenbrand moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bowman seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.
Meeting was adjourned at 9:11 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Date: Quan 2/, 2025°

ReNae J. Béwman, School Board Clerk