ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS - INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 281
FINANCIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL (FAC)
MINUTES FOR MARCH 18, 2025
DRAFT
FAC Members
Greg Kugler, Chair Edwin Ochoa
X X
Ukee Dozier Nicole Sandback
April Gulley Sarah Taylor,
X X
Secretary
Katherine Lankford
X
School Board Member
X Aviva Hillenbrand, X Helen Bassett
Treasurer X ReNae Bowman
District 281 Staff
Teri Staloch, Amy O'Hern,
Superintendent Executive Director of
Human Resources
Kristen Hoheisel, Karylanne Marchand,
X Chief Financial X Business Services
Officer Office Manager
Virginia Verbrugge,
X Assistant Director of
Finance
Agenda Item 1: Welcome and Introductions
Greg Kugler called the meeting to order at 6 p.m., with a motion by Sarah Taylor and seconded by Greg Kugler. The meeting was held in person at the Education Service
Center. The meeting included the FAC members and others noted above in addition to one community member in attendance. Kristen Hoheisel shared that Karylanne
Marchand is retiring after 37 years this coming May and requested discussing the future of FAC, which was added to Agenda Item 7: Other. Kristen Hoheisel shared that Ukee
Dozier submitted his FAC resignation to her and Dr Staloch the evening of March 17,
2025. The group discussed that Nicole Sandback has not been in attendance for a lengthy amount of time and was unresponsive to emails from Karylanne Marchand. The
FAC recommends the board formally remove Ukee Dozier and Nicole Sandback from the FAC to open it up for two new candidates to apply.
Agenda Item 2: Acceptance of Agenda
The agenda had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was made by Sarah Taylor and seconded by Edwin Ochoa. The motion passed unanimously.
th
Agenda Item 3: Approve January 14 , 2025, Meeting Minutes

The minutes had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was made by Sarah Taylor and seconded by April Gulley. The motion passed unanimously.
Agenda Item 4: FY26 Budget Adjustments, Considerations, and Actions -
UPDATE
4A. Transportation for Minneapolis Open Enrollment (12/16/24)
● Total proposed transportation savings greater than $700K; 264K resulting from the Mpls changes, $28K is from eliminating 1 activity bus and keeping 1 activity bus.
● Sarah Taylor asked for an explanation of the decision to move RSI to early time but not SEA. Kristen Hoheisel explained that we buy buses for 5 hours and run on 3 tiers. Elementary (1), High (2), Middle + elementary magnets (3). The goal is to use the same number of routes for each tier. Ex. trying to start with 50
buses for all tiers. The issue for elementary routes is we need to deploy more for magnet schools because they pick up from all areas of the district. If we did bell time for all elementary magnets then we'd need 65 buses meaning we'd be paying for 65 buses for 5 hours even though it could mean middle and high school only require 40 buses. This is why SEA is not proposed to change to the early start.
● Helen Bassett - question on 55405 - with 1000+ students coming from Mpls, will all of them be transported to a spot and then transported to school? Helen wants to see the communication that is going out to families as a board member and wants to see the percentage of each grade that will be impacted. Also asked, what the plan is if this puts buildings at capacity and the option of creating hubs for Mpls students. Kristen Hoheisel replied: 55405 is the zip code no longer included in transportation options. The other Mpls zip codes will be transported from home to their nearest 281 school. As far as the numbers, that is part of the transportation presentation from November 2024. Aviva Hillenbrand recalled that budget estimates included a consideration that XX% of students will leave 281
due to these changes.
4B. Staffing (1/6/25) - vast majority is licensed staff, other staff, such as those not covered under union contract are TBD. No additional conversation.
4C. FY25 Budget Recommendations (5/2/24) - no review.
4D. RAS Program Evaluation (pending) - made it through this evaluation, gifted and talented is the only planned change. IB will remain. No additional conversation.
4E. Middle School Reimagine (pending) - discussions include aligning how days are scheduled, such as periods or blocks. No additional conversation.
4F. Bell Times and Walk Zones (pending) - evaluating bell times now. No additional conversation.
Agenda Item 5: Policies and Procedures
Kristen Hoheisel proposed talking through policies 704 and 705 but after discussion it was determined the council members should read through the policies as homework and flag any items in the policies that break from the district vision or cause inequities taking a financial lens.

Aviva Hillenbrand explained that MSBA purposely leaves the policies vague so districts can modify to fit their district's vision. ReNae Bowman shared at this time the attorney is reviewing policies to make sure they are compliant with State statutes.
As a takeaway, Kristen Hoheisel will get the FAC members access to a shared word doc and will provide a few dates in April for an additional FAC meeting to discuss the policies. No discussion was had on any specific policy below.
5A. 412 RAS Policy - Expense Reimbursement
5B. 511 RAS Policy - Student Fundraising
5C. 701 RAS Policy - Establishment and Adoption of School District Budget (draft)
5D. 701.1 RAS Administrative Procedure - Modification of School District Budget
(draft)
5E. 702 RAS Policy - Accounting (draft)
5F. 703 RAS Policy - Annual Audit (draft)
5G. 704 RAS Policy - Development and Maintenance, Fixed Assets Accounting System
(draft)
5H. 705 RAS Policy - Investments (draft)
5I. 706 RAS Policy - Acceptance of Gifts (draft)
5J. 713 RAS Policy - Student Activity Accounting (draft)
5K. 714 RAS Policy - Fund Balances (draft)
5L. 720 RAS Policy - Vending Machines (draft)
5M. 721 RAS Policy - Uniform Grant Guidance Regarding Federal Revenue Sources
(draft)
Agenda Item 6: Future Meetings
The currently scheduled meetings for the remainder of the fiscal year are as follows:
● April TBD - Doodle poll will be sent to members
● May 13, 2025
● TBD - Presentation of 2024-25 report to the School Board
Agenda Item 7: Other
What is the intent and future of FAC? Helen Bassett asked the FAC members what we think our roles should be and ReNae Bowman asked Kristen Hoheisel what she sees happening with the FAC.
As a historic example, Helen Bassett shared that when the district was planning to sell a building, the FAC had the expertise to help with negotiating on the purchase of the property. This highlights the value the FAC can bring to the district.
ReNae Bowman shared from her board perspective, the FAC is brought in after decisions are made, so in the current state we want info to the FAC to be timelier. She mentioned that John Vento was good about sharing FAC issues with the rest of the board, so she felt informed of what was going on and John made the board aware of absences of members on the FAC.
Points made that we want the board to consider:

● Greg Kugler: the FAC is known as a sounding board but not until after the board has already reviewed content and typically voted. As a VP at a company, this appears to be a waste of all our time. The reason Greg joined the FAC (the most tenured of our group) was to add value using his unique skills, right now he doesn't feel he's adding value rather, just getting updates about what the board has already voted on.
● Kristen Hoheisel: she is not okay with the bylaws stating one thing but not functioning as stated. In reading the bylaws and the intent, this is not "her FAC"
but she sees a ton of value in bringing topics, like the budget assumptions, to the
FAC for discussion. Building things with different voices is her preferred way of working. When asked what she thinks is needed to make the board and council more effective, she replied that it's the timing. With us being almost in April she cannot get things to the FAC ahead of where we must be with board votes.
Would like to consider timing and number of FAC meetings per year. This is a decision for the Council, Board Treasurer, and CFO.
● ReNae Bowman suggested putting together a calendar of agenda items so we can be ready for topics coming up for board approval with adequate lead time.
She also suggested that we need to clarify the roles and look at who comes into these meetings.
● Helen Bassett wants to have better clarity around the audit results and what management actions were or will be taken because of it. She would like to see a work plan created with intended outcomes so we can better understand if we have the talent necessary on the FAC. Helen also suggested asking Mr. Williams to join some of our sessions to share what is going on in the Legislative Action
Committee (LAC). This could help us identify the areas that we find most important for FAC feedback. Another source brought up is the AMSD
(Association of Metropolitan School Districts). They record their sessions although the topics are much broader it could identify topics the FAC should be discussing.
● Aviva Hillenbrand wants to look at cadence and timing of meetings considering the timing of when financial decisions are needed. She also believes financial statements should be a recurring agenda topic as those are a critical financial component that the FAC should review.
● Sarah Taylor: applied to the FAC based on the expectation as written in the bylaws and wants to help the school make sound financial decisions. She was concerned to hear that for the past 6 years the FAC is just getting updates of what occurred at previous board meetings. Sarah had reviewed past FAC board presentations and questioned if there is a better way to share recommendations to make them more actionable and if there is follow up needed by the board to understand what the board did with those recommendations. Missing a feedback loop. Sarah would also like to better understand what options exist with not removing the full $21M deficit next year, given we are already in Statutory
Operating Debt (SOD). Understands the importance of a balanced budget but how can we weigh that against making cuts that could reduce headcount?
● Edwin Ochoa: the bylaws should be more detailed for what the expected delivery and focus of the FAC should be (budget, and?). Others mentioned that the

bylaws are purposely broad so there is flexibility based on the need, but most agreed the FAC lacks focus on the most important financial topics.
● April Gulley has been on the board for 2 years and has a background at PwC.
The board needs to get clear on what they want from the FAC, in agreement with Edwin.
● Katherine Lankford asked for clarity on how the information is being used by the board - are recommendations being used or are they being presented in an actionable way. She also expressed a need for educating the FAC on school finance topics in a timely manner to help prepare us for conversations prior to them being on the agenda. If a FAC meeting expectation is to deliver something to the board, then the FAC should get the same links to the details as what the board is getting.
● Kristin Hoheisel wants to ensure the board can align on what the function and what the focus of the FAC is. Right now, we are behind the eight ball on budgeting and audits so it's hard for her to identify what to bring forward and what to focus on. Does the board have enough information with current bylaws and these meeting notes to know what to talk through in a board working session? Helen and ReNae both felt they had enough info and requested the meeting minutes.
● Sarah will send the FAC meeting minutes draft to the Helen and ReNae before
April, so they have the FAC members' thoughts for the board discussion.
Summary of points for the board to consider:
● Vote to remove Ukee Dozier and Nicole Sandback from council.
● Do the FAC bylaws still reflect the will of the board? What is the board's expectation of the FAC?
● What topics do the board want input from the FAC on (FAC's focus)? If they are repetitive topics, like budget, can a calendar be created so FAC can determine appropriate/proactive meeting dates?
● How can we create collaboration between the board and FAC? Would the board want regular share outs in addition to, or as a replacement of, the annual recommendations presentation to the board? Is there an expectation that the board review FAC minutes and submit agenda topics to the FAC for follow-up?
Summary of potential FAC topics:
● Review of financial statements - budget to actuals (frequency?)
● School finance trainings for FAC members (extend to BoE?)
● Budget assumption evaluation
● LAC updates
● Audit and recommended management actions review th
Sarah Taylor shared she will be out of town during the May 13 meeting and Karylanne will not be in attendance so someone will have to record the minutes in their absence.
Agenda Item 8: Adjourn
A motion to adjourn the meeting was made by Katherine Lankford and seconded by
April Gulley at 7:57 p.m. The motion passed unanimously.
Meeting minutes submitted by Sarah Taylor.