Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
March 3, 2025

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Sonnesyn visit highlights literacy
Sonnesyn Elementary welcomed state leaders Feb. 28 to take a look at the
Minnesota Grow Your Own Program and
Bridge2Read, both strengthening teacher development and early literacy.
● Bridge2Read shows strong results, with a 2nd-grade class reaching
70% proficiency
● Sonnesyn and Lakeview in year three of Bridge2Read; first year for other district schools

I Love to Read Month
Last week I visited Noble and RSI to celebrate I Love to Read Month, reading What Do You Do With an
Idea? and highlighting the importance of literacy in student success.
● The book encourages creativity, confidence, and persistence in pursuing ideas
● Engaged students in discussion about thinking differently and believing in themselves

Other opportunities, partnerships
From hands-on career exploration to meaningful community partnerships, we continue to support student success and honor the expertise of our staff.
● Big Ideas USA visited Cooper, introducing students from all high school sites, to hands-on skilled trades experiences
● Attended the Tribal Nations Education
Committee (TNEC) Tribal Consultation to ensure input from tribal communities in education policy

Celebrating students
From the basketball court to the stage, students at Armstrong and Cooper are showcasing talent, dedication, and school spirit.
● Girls' Basketball players at Armstrong and Cooper celebrated Senior Night
● CHS theater presented 42nd Street, and
AHS Something Rotten, highlighting student creativity and performing arts
● Visiting students at Cooper and
Armstrong who are exploring internship opportunities

Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030
Through community meetings, vision team discussions, and surveys, we continue to students, families, and staff!
● Community, staff and pop-up meetings continue, gathering diverse perspectives
● Vision Team meeting brought together stakeholders to refine priorities
● Survey provides a platform for all voices to be heard

Upcoming Vision 2030 events
Four Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 community meetings remain-open to all, with intentional outreach to Indigenous and Latino communities.
All meetings will go from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m.
● March 10 - FAIR Crystal (Indigenous
Community Engagement)
● March 19 - Robbinsdale Spanish Immersion
(Latino Community Engagement)
● March 24 - Virtual meeting (link on website)
● March 26 - Meadow Lake Elementary School

Investing in our staff
From professional development to statewide recognition, we continue to support and celebrate the incredible educators who make a difference every day.
● Cooper High School math teacher
Garrett Bruce named a Minnesota
Teacher of the Year semifinalist
● Staff participated in Tier 1 Behavioral
Strategies Training and LETRS sessions during a professional development day
Feb. 20

Thank you

a

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools

Thank you