Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved May 19, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, May 5, 2025, beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the

meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and Dr. Kenneth Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

Approval of the Agenda
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the agenda, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

Rdale Proud - Showcase: Lakeview Elementary - International Baccalaureate Primary Years Programme (IB
PYP) 5th Grade Exhibition Project

Wilbur Winkelman, Principal at Lakeview Elementary

Brianna Cross, Mack Nystrom, Lannie Segebarth - Teachers

5th Grade Student Scholars

Mr. Winkelman, Ms. Cross, Mr. Nystrom and Mr. Segebarth presented information regarding the IB PYP 5th grade
Exhibition Project, and student scholars shared their projects.

District 281 Youth Council (D281YC) Priorities and Recommendations

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education

Dr. Anne Beaton, Armstrong Advanced Placement (AP) Seminar Teacher and BARR Coordinator

Nicole Plagge, Youth Development and Enrichment Coordinator

Members of the District 281 Youth Council

Dr. Beaton and Ms. Plagge explained the focus of the work of the D281YC for the 2024-2025 school year, and members of the D281YC provided their priorities and recommendations based on their research:
PRIORITIES:

e Building relationships between students and staff

e Staff identify and examine biases

e Active learning and engaging lessons

RECOMMENDATIONS:

e Name the D281YC priorities in the School Improvement Plans (SIPs)

Use these priorities as guidelines when choosing programs and designing professional development
When implementing programs and professional development, follow through fully

Give teachers time to rework curriculum to implement training

Co-plan and co-facilitate professional learning with students

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch reminded everyone of the Rdale mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their

unique potential and positively contribute to their community, then shared some of the highlights since the last

meeting, including:

e Welcomed Dr. Robert McDowell as our new Assistant Superintendent, with an official start date of June 1, 2025

e May 1, 2025 - Hosted the Association of Metropolitan School Districts (AMSD) event Community-Engaged
Leadership: A Community Conversation - featuring Dr. Darrius Stanley

e May 2, 2025 - Celebrated 50 years of Volunteers In Partnership (VIP), thanking all of the volunteers for bringing connection, joy, and opportunity into our schools

e May 2, 2025 - Attended the annual Athena Awards Banquet where Armstrong senior Ava Mack and Cooper senior Anna Delaney were honored

e Reimagine Rdale Vision 2030 Update

Strategic Plan Priority Work Theme D: Staff Investment and Impact
Amy O''Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources

Latisha Barzey, Assistant Principal at Sandburg Middle School

Mike Bury, Assistant Principal at Plymouth Middle School

Heather Hanson, Principal at School of Engineering and Arts (SEA)
Lana Lindeman, Assistant Principal at Neill Elementary

Tracy Moll and Brian Shreve, Special Education Supervisors

Anh Tran, Human Resources Program Director

DELIVERABLES FOR 2025-2026:

e Data Analysis - 2023 Staff Survey and Exit Data

e RAS Employee Welcome and Onboarding

e Community Building - School Community Engagement Resource Guide
ACTION PLAN:

e Foster an inclusive, supportive, and welcoming culture

Operations
A. District 287 Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Plan
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval (waived reading), and Director Hillenbrand seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.
B. Server and Storage Refresh, plus Backup, Recover and Cybervault
Joel Mehring, Assistant Director of Technology, reviewed information regarding costs pertaining to server and storage refresh, plus backup, recover and cybervault to be allocated from technology levy funds, and recommended to be brought forward for approval at the May 19, 2025 Business Meeting.
Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report - No update, waiting on administration
Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Report
Clerk Bowman and Chair Evans-Becker noted that the Governance Policy and Procedure Manual will be reviewed for formatting, then brought to a Board Study (Work) Session for review prior to June 1, 2025.
E. Policy Committee Report - Next meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, May 7, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom
F. Administrative Updates - None this evening

SO

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items are considered routine in nature and are enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Board member so requests, in which the item will be removed as a Consent
Agenda item, and addressed. Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the consent agenda, Director Hillenbrand seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.

Closed Session

MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved to recess to a closed session pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 13D.05, Subd. 2(b) for preliminary consideration of allegations against an individual subject to the School Board's authority, Director Bowman seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.

Business Meeting recessed at 8:20 p.m., then reconvened at 9:10 p.m.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjourn the Meeting
MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.
Meeting was adjourned at 9:11 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Supgrintendent and School Board

W

Date: 5 9] ZO2S _

ReNae J. Bowrpfan, School Board Clerk