To: School Board Members and Superintendent Staloch
From: Anthony Williams, Executive Director Community Education,
Athletics, and Activities
Date: Apr 22, 2025
Re: Non-Action - Family Literacy Transition
I understand the concerns surrounding the closure of the Family Literacy program at Crystal
Learning Center and want to assure you that this decision was not made lightly. However, it was necessary due to the long-term financial impact on the Early Learning budget.
The Family Lit program currently serves 31 students (children of Adult Academic Program participants). Many of the participants who utilize this resource reside outside of the district and attend the Adult Academic Program for the opportunity to learn English, pursue a GED, or prepare for college. Having the Family Literacy program on-site at Crystal Learning Center is a resource to the families who utilize the service (less than 10% of the Adult Academic student population). The
Family Lit program costs $489,000 annually to operate, making it financially unsustainable.
Continuing the program would rapidly deplete the Early Learning fund balance.
While the Family Lit program at CLC is closing, Rdale remains committed to early learning through its robust programs at New Hope Learning Center. To ensure the long-term stability of the ECFE program, funds will be reallocated within ECFE to align FY26 revenue with overall program costs while maintaining a healthy fund balance.
Steps we have taken:
With the ending of the Family Literacy Program at Crystal Learning Center, Early Learning staff are reaching out to ensure Adult Academic Program (AAP) students are supported with robust preschool options for their children. Parent Education and preschool programming will continue at New Hope Learning Center during the 2025-2026 school year.
Meetings were held on March 26 at Crystal Learning Center with both AAP and Early Learning staff, as well as students currently enrolled in the Family Lit program to answer questions about transitioning the services to the New Hope Learning Center Early Learning programs. Parents were encouraged to learn more about classes and receive help with registration during a special session held at Crystal Learning Center on April 10.
AAP Learner support staff will continue to work with students to find resources that best fit their individual circumstances.
About Us:
Robbinsdale Area Schools Early Learning Program continues to provide high quality offerings to families at New Hope Learning Center. The programs include but are not limited to Early

Childhood Family Education (ECFE), Pre-School, Parent Support, and Screening. A list of the offerings can be found here: Early Learning.