Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Original 1995
Adopted November 4, 2013
Revised, Reviewed: May 2025
Approved: (enter date here)
102 POLICY - EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to ensure that equal educational opportunity is provided for all students of the school district.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. The policy of the school district is to provide equal educational opportunity for all students. The school district does not unlawfully discriminate on the basis of one or more of the following: race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, gender, marital status, parental status, status with regard to public assistance, disability, sexual orientation, or age.
The school district also makes reasonable accommodations for disabled students.
B. The school district prohibits the harassment of any individual for any of the categories listed above. For information about the types of conduct that constitute violation of the school district's policy on harassment and violence and the school district's procedures for addressing such complaints, refer to the school district's policy on harassment and violence.
C. This policy applies to all areas of education including academics, coursework, cocurricular and extracurricular activities, or other rights or privileges of enrollment.
The school district prohibits discrimination of students with a disability, within the intent of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ("Section 504"), who need services, accommodations, or programs in order to receive a free appropriate public education.
For information as to protections that may apply pursuant to Section 504 and the school district's corresponding procedures for addressing disability discrimination complaints, refer to the school district's policy on student disability nondiscrimination (Policy 521).
D. Every school district employee shall be responsible for complying with this policy conscientiously.
The school district prohibits sexual harassment discrimination of any individual on the basis of sex in its education programs or activities. For information as to the protectionsDRAFT
that apply pursuant to Title IX and school district's corresponding procedures and processes for addressing sexual harassment and discrimination, refer to the school district's policy on Title IX sex nondiscrimination (Policy 522).
E. Any student, parent, or guardian having a question regarding this policy should discuss it with the appropriate school district official as provided by policy. In the absence of a specific designee, an inquiry or a complaint should be referred to the superintendent.
The school district shall provide equal opportunity for members of each sex and to

members of all races and ethnicities to participate in its athletic program. In determining whether equal opportunity to participate in athletic programs is available for the purposes of this law, at least the following factors shall be considered to the extent that they are applicable to a given situation:
● whether the opportunity for males and females to participate in the athletic program reflects the demonstrated interest in athletics of the males and females in the student body of the educational institution;
● whether the opportunity for members of all races and ethnicities to participate in the athletic program reflects the demonstrated interest in athletics of members of all races and ethnicities in the student body of the educational institution;
● whether the variety and selection of sports and levels of competition effectively accommodate the demonstrated interests of members of each sex;
● whether the variety and selection of sports and levels of competition effectively accommodate the demonstrated interests of members of all races and ethnicities;
● the provision of equipment and supplies; scheduling of games and practice times;
● assignment of coaches; provision of locker rooms;
● practice and competitive facilities;
● and the provision of necessary funds for teams of one sex.
F. This policy applies to all areas of education including academics, coursework, cocurricular and extracurricular activities, or other rights or privileges of enrollment.
G. Every school district employee shall be responsible for complying with this policy.
H. Any student, parent, or guardian having a question regarding this policy should discuss it with the appropriate school district official as provided by policy. In the absence of a specific designee, an inquiry or a complaint should be referred to the superintendent.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 121A.03, Subd. 2 (Sexual, Religious, and Racial Harassment and
Violence Policy)
Minn. Stat. Ch. 363A (Minnesota Human Rights Act)
20 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq. (Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972)
42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq. (Americans with Disabilities Act)
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 402 (Disability Nondiscrimination)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 413 (Harassment and Violence)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 521 (Student Disability Nondiscrimination)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 522 (Student Sex Nondiscrimination)
DRAFT