Member Holmes. introduced the following Resolution and moved its adoption:

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, Director Caroline Long filed a complaint alleging that Director Sharon Brooks engaged in colorism and racism at the meeting held on August 26, 2024;

WHEREAS, the School Board directly observed Director Brooks' conduct at the meeting on
August 26, 2024; and

WHEREAS, the School Board considered Director Long's complaint at the work session held on
December 2, 2024; and

WHEREAS, during the work session on December 2, 2024, the School Board gave Director
Brooks an opportunity to respond to Director Long's allegations;

NOW, THEREFORE, the School Board of Independent School District No. 281 ("Board")
makes the following findings and conclusions:

1.

In June 2024, an independent investigator completed an investigation into multiple complaints involving Board Members. The investigator submitted an investigation report dated August 14, 2024 containing his findings and conclusions.

In the investigation report, the independent investigator noted that a "recurring theme in the problematic relationship between Director Brooks and Director Long has been
Director Long's racial identification." The independent investigator found that "Director
Brooks has historically been either reluctant or unwilling to acknowledge Director Long's racial identification." The report highlighted an exchange that occurred during a Board meeting on July 22, 2024. During the exchange, Director Holmes clarified that there were three Black members of the Board. "Director Brooks responded by emphasizing that
Director Long 'identifies as Black.'"

The investigator concluded that Director Brooks violated Policy 413, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of protected characteristics, including race and color.

All members of the Board received the investigation report.

The Board considered and discussed the investigation report at a special meeting held on
August 26, 2024.R

At the meeting on August 26, 2024, the Board censured Director Brooks for violating
Policy 413, prohibiting harassment and discrimination, as outlined in the investigation report.

10.

At the meeting on August 26, 2024, Director Long stated that she does not "identify as
Black." She stated that she is "a Black woman."

After the Board voted to censure her at the meeting on August 26, 2024, Director Brooks stated, "I'm Black" while repeatedly stating that Director Long "identifies as black." At the same meeting, Director Brooks made a number of other comments related to Director
Long's race, including the following:

a. "I never asked for her DNA."

b. Director Long "revealed something about herself... that she had been called a 'N
baby' by her mom."

c. "She feels that way about herself that being called that by her mom, her words."
d. "You're identified as Black. I saw it in the report."

e. "If you don't want to be called identified as Black, what phrase do you want besides Director Long?"

f. Director Brooks repeatedly insisted that Director Long told Director Brooks that she "identified as" Black and that Director Brooks was using the language
Director Long had asked to be called. Director Long clarified during the meeting that "I have never used the word 'as identified,' I've always stated I am a Black woman."

During the work session on December 2, 2024, Director Brooks continued to claim that
Director Long had stated that she "identifies as Black."

During the work session on December 2, 2024, Director Brooks repeatedly disregard the seriousness of Director Long's allegations, demeaned Director Long, and engaged in conduct that a reasonable person could find to be retaliatory. For example:

a. Director Brooks claimed that Director Long's allegations were "cloaked in a lie by someone who said publicly she identifies as black."

b. Director Brooks repeatedly referred to Director Long by her first name or her first and last name rather than using the title "Director" as required for Board
Members.

c. Director Brooks dismissed the allegations as "something that's been created about

me, for whatever reason," a "massive waste of time," and "beneath even what the elementary students are learning."

11.

12.

13.

14.

d. Director Brooks insisted that Director Long should have approached her to have a conversation while also stating she and Director Long "don't even speak. I don't address her."

e. Director Brooks stated that she does not speak to Director Long because she doesn't "know what she's going to glean from my hello and I don't know if she's going to file some complaint."

f. Director Brooks blamed Director Long for the complaint by stating "this started with Director Long mentioning race to me about the Native Americans."

g. Director Brooks claimed that she did not know before the meeting on December
2, 2024, that Director Long did not like to be referred to as "identifies as Black."
At the meeting on August 26, 2024, Director Long explicitly stated that she does not identify as Black and that she is a Black woman.

h. Director Brooks stated: "I've seen ongoing harassment of people, it's much worse. I have been harassed for being Black. This is not that."

i, Director Brooks stated: "I'll show you some Black harassment."

j. Director Brooks stated: "Colorism is real but it's much more harsh."

k. Director Brooks loudly sighed while Director Long was speaking.

L Director Brooks addressed Director Long directly and repeated stated: "I respect

your feelings" while emphasizing the word "feelings."

m. Director Brooks purported to apologize to Director Long by stating, "I'm sorry you feel this way."

District Policy 413 and 413.1AP prohibits discrimination on the basis of race and color.
The policy also prohibits retaliation.

On August 26 and December 2, 2024, Director Brooks repeatedly violated Policy 413
and 413.1AP. Specifically, as described in paragraphs 8, 9, and 10, above, Director
Brooks engaged in discriminatory conduct and retaliatory conduct in violation of Policy
413 and 413.1AP.

On August 26, 2024 and December 2, 2024, Director Brooks engaged in conduct that was unnecessarily divisive, racially-based, and unbecoming of a Board member. Her conduct also tarnished the desired image of the School Board.

The seriousness of Director Brooks's violation of Policy 413 is compounded by her lack of remorse, her dismissive approach to the complaint, her assertions that Director Long's complaint was not "real" colorism, her claim that the complaint was about Director

15.

16.

17.

18.

Long's "feelings," and her refusal to accept responsibility for the racial harm caused by her comments.

Board Members are expected to serve as role models. Director Brooks has failed to fulfill this expectation.

On August 26, 2024, the Board censured Director Brooks for her conduct that violated
Policy 413. That conduct was documented in the Investigation Report. During the
Business Meeting on December 2, 2024, the Board voted to accept the conclusions in the
Investigation Report, which include the conclusion that Director Brooks violated Policy
413 in her statements to Director Long. Some of the statements that are documented in the investigation report are highly similar to the language Director Brooks used during the work session on December 2, 2024, including the following:

a. "As a Black Woman with larger societal issues I face every day that you can't even begin to imagine..."

b. "seemingly rooted in some form of racial hatred towards Black and Native people."

c. " her often near-violent cry at the Board table to be recognized as Black..."

d. "..some delusional form of jealous racism by Caroline Long against people of color."

Director Brooks's conduct on August 26 and December 2 violated the Board's Statement of Roles, Core Values, and Norms, and specifically Norm No. 4, which states: "We will build trusting and respectful relationships with... fellow Board members."

The Board finds that the August 26, 2024 censure did not have the intended effect of changing Director Brooks' behavior. Director Brooks has continued to engage in the same type of conduct, which continues to be targeted at Director Long.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the School Board of Independent School District
No. 281, as follows:

1.

The Board has weighed the competing interests and has determined that this Resolution is in the best interests of the School District. Specifically, it is in the best interests of the
District for all Board members to comply with District policies, procedures, and established norms.

The Board hereby censures Director Brooks for the conduct that is described in this
Resolution.

The Board formally disavows Director Brooks' conduct.

|
|

4. Effective immediately, the Board removes Director Brooks from all committee assignments.

5. The Board hereby places Director Brooks on notice that she must not engage in the same or any similar conduct in the future. Any future violation of District policy or protocols may result in the Board taking additional action up to and including removal from the
Board.

The motion for the adoption of this Resolution was duly seconded by Member Bowman _., and upon a roll call vote being taken, the following members voted in favor of the motion:
Directors: Bowman, Evons- Becker, Holmes, ancl Long

And the following members voted against the motion:

Director Bassett"

Whereupon the Resolution was declared duly passed and adopted on December 16, 2024.

Chair \ Clerk