Full Service
Community Schools
Connecting Students and Families to the School Community
June 16, 2025

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.

Purpose
The purpose of this presentation is to share the work that has been happening around the district's
Full Service Community Schools (FSCS) initiative with the School Board and broader community.

Implementation Steps
●
● Hire FSCS Coordinator
● Establish Site Leadership Team and host monthly meetings
● Conduct Community Asset Mapping
● Perform needs assessment
● Identify Key Priorities
● Develop FSCS Plan
● Implement Plan

Community Schools:
Four Important Pillars

Needs Assessment

Collaborative Leadership

Strategic Partnerships
FSCS Coordinators work with partner organizations that are trusted in the community to provide students, families, and staff with resources to support their academic, social-emotional, and mental well-being.

Partnership Highlights
Power Of People
Hennepin Healthcare
Ready Set Smile
Leadership Initiative
POPLI
Dental Hygiene Youth Mentorship Mental Health Support

Community Partners

Family and Community Engagement
Full Service Family Nights: Bingo, Movie night,
Floats with Full Service, Renters & Home Buyers
Workshop. Winter Wonderland, Cinco De Mayo. Allina
Health substance use education night.
Prism: School supplies, snack packs, Food pick-up
Saturdays.
Tickets for Kids: Creates opportunities for exposure to various activities and events within the community.
School Leadership Team: Administrators, licensed and non-licensed staff, parents, students, community partners.

Family, Student, and Staff Resources Provided
Total: Over 16,000 items
Community Engagement Data
Total Participants: 5,632 Students & Families, 42 Staff
"FSCS provided my students with many things this year, including transportation, furniture, school supplies and dental care, helping them stay mentally and physically healthy and reducing other needs so that they could focus on their school work.
They were immense support to me and my students' families." FSCS Family

FSCS Key Accomplishments
● Inclusive and Culturally Responsive ● Holiday Community Dinner Event
Tutoring Groups ● Holiday Gift Program Community
● Before/after school Enrichment Program Partnerships
● CHS: Black Student Empowerment ● MN Urban Debate League
Summit ● Quarterly Partnership Network Sessions
● PRISM food distribution Saturdays ● Black Youth Mental Health Summit
● Monthly Family Events ● MN FSCS Site Visits
● Laundry/Hygiene Pick-up ● Youth Mental Health First AID Responder
● S.E.L Groups throughout the school day ● MNSure Navigators

2025 National Conference
As part of the 2025 National Community Schools and Family Engagement
Conference held in Minneapolis, Robbinsdale Middle School and Cooper High
School hosted a combined 80 conference participants from around the nation.
Participants consisted of district and building level leaders, coordinators, social workers, classroom teachers, and community based organizations.

FSCS Testimonials
"The Full-Service Community School has offered many valuable services and supports to
RMS students this year! They have provided needed hygiene items to students, created enrichment activities after school that were popular among students, and provided a judgement free space for students to safely express their needs. They have partnered with support staff to support student mental health needs as well. They are having a positive impact on our school community!" B. Sowden, RMS School Psychologist
"The Full-Service office has provided me and countless others by providing a safe space to speak about any problems personal or academic, and seek career opportunities. Both
Vanessa and Lakia show how much they care about students every time a student walks in. They always ask how one is doing and will listen and give guidance. Whenever you are having a bad day, they will sit here and work with you to make sure you leave with a smile. There is so much more I could say about how they help, but the basis is that they are very caring to every student they meet." Y.H.G. Cooper student, 12th grade

FSCS Testimonials
"I am so glad that the Cooper community has such a valuable asset in the Full Service Community Schools program. Through this program, our students and their families have the opportunity to receive vital services and resources. It's often said in education circles that we need to take care of Maslow before we can take care of
Bloom. Simply put, if a student doesn't feel physically and emotionally safe, nourished and healthy, or if their basic human needs are not met, they will not be capable of engaging in even the simplest of mental challenges in the classroom. Not only does the program offer resources to our Cooper community, they do so by the capable, caring hands of Vanessa Aguirre and LaKia Mcgahee. Ms. Kia and Ms. Vanessa have made great efforts to connect with our most needing students, and to create a safe space for our entire community to take care of those basic Maslow needs." J.M., Cooper teaching staff
"The Full Community Schools program is having a tremendous impact on our students, our school, and myself personally. In cooking class, our students take pride in the dishes we create. Rather than eat the dishes we prepare, many students just want to take the food home to share with their families. They are proud and confident in their new skills. Additionally, our teachers are getting a chance to share and teach about our passions, which creates a much different experience for both the student and educator. Teacher-student relations can be fragile, but these types of experiences are helping improve those important relationships as we all see each other in this alternative community environment. The vision, commitment, professionalism, and overall excellence of the Full Community Schools staff is positively impacting our school, hopefully for a long time to come." T. Leach, RMS Special Education Teacher & Youth Enrichment Instructor

Questions?

Thank you!

What the Four Pillars of Community Schools Look Like in Action

Enrichment activities emphasize real-world learning and community problem solving.

After-school, weekend, and summer programs provide academic instruction and

COMMUNITY,
EDUCATION

Robbinsdale Area Schools

Community Schools:
Four Important Pillars

Promoting i

administration, and teachers helps fami
'more involved in ions about their children's education.

to

Schools function as neighborhood hubs. There are educational opportunities for adults, and family members

can share their stories and serve as equal partners in promoting student success

individualized support.

Adedicated staff member coordinates support programs to adidiess out-of-school

learning bariers for students and fanilis.

Mental and physical health services support student success.

Needs Assessment

COMMUNITY
EDUCATION

Robbinsdale Area Schools

Student Responses: How can FSCS help you today?

Social/Mental/Financial
10.5 Academic Support

Chaptsick
0.9)
Social Emotional Su. Clothing
14.0% "* 1.8
Enrichment Activities

School Supplies
2.6

Nutrition/Physical Ac
Mentoring/Youth Dev.

18
Job Training/Career..

Health/Dental

Housing

Hygiene Support

Winter Whisper (December 20

Social Emotional Support (S.E.

School Supplies, Hygiene Sup.
72

School Supplies :

79.0

Ready Set Smile (Onsite Dent

Laundry Support

Count of How can FSCS Help You Today?

'Academic Support

Behavior Support

Clothing Support

Clothing Support, Hygiene Su...
12

Coat Closet

1
Enrichment Activities,

Food Support

Food Support, Clothing Support
--eee

Food Support, Clothing Suppo.

Food Support, Clothing Suppo.

12
Food Support, Hygiene Support

Hygiene Support

18
_____ Food Support, School Supplies

a Collaborative Leadership

COMMUNITY,
EDUCATION

Collaborative Leadership and Practice

COMMUNITY
EDUCATION

Robbinsdale Area Schools

change, .
teChillorg

by Allina Health

Junior PEOPLE

Achievement" |NCORPORATED

MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES

_

reeRi
ThreeRivers TREEHOUSE

AR Community Partners

Minnesota

ei] TICKETS : >
( as I tc
DEBATE SSRs Oivervair

League i river valleys

Mental Health
FIRST AID

Hennepin
\ <? EVERY MEAL

FIGHTING CHILD HUNGER

Questions?

COMMUNITY
SCHOOL

COMMUNITY

Thank you!