2025 SCHOOL BOARD COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS
Note: All committees have some date variables due to holidays and other calendar concerns.
Board
Book
Post
(yes or
Board Committees no) Meeting Purpose/Info Representative(s) Alternate(s) Notes
Purpose: To consolidate Voted by resolution in
Board priorities on safety 2022-2023 School Year and security, and report back to the board at future
Ad Hoc Committee: Safety and work sessions with Greta Evans-Becker, Kim
Security (3 Board Members) Yes recommendations. Holmes, Caroline Long
Purpose: To consolidate Voted by resolution in
Board priorities on 2023-2024 School Year transportation and capital infrastructure, and report back to the board at future
Ad Hoc Committee: Transportation work sessions with Helen Bassett, Greta and Capital (3 Board Members) Yes recommendations. Evans-Becker
Purpose: to provide financial advice and support to the
Robbinsdale Area School
Board and senior administration that is consistent with the mission of the district. The Council is accountable to the School
Board of Robbinsdale Area Aviva Hillenbrand - Treasurer,
Finance Advisory Council (FAC) to Schools. Quarterly (4-6 Helen Bassett, ReNae Per bylaws, Treasurer is include OPEB Yes meetings/year) Bowman Council member
Purpose: Review new and revised School Board policies, Board Bylaws, and the Board's Governance
Governance Policy Committee Policy before they are ReNae Bowman, Aviva TBD by Board based on
(3 Board Members) Yes presented to the full board. Hillenbrand, Kenneth Wutoh district policy review cycle
Representatives to In-District
Committees Meeting Info Representative(s) Alternate(s) Notes
1st Tuesday, 5:30-7:00 p.m.
every other month
Community Ed Advisory (CEAC) beginning in October Kenneth Wutoh Greta Evans-Becker
District Curriculum Advisory Helen Bassett, Greta State Statute Committee
Committee (formerly SAC) 4 times a year Evans-Becker

4th Wednesday, 7:30 a.m. in One hour - virtual meeting person with option to Zoom
District 281 Partnership in All invited to attend
Thursdays at 6:30 p.m.
Hybrid (in person and via
InterSchool Council (ISC) Zoom) All invited to attend
Legislative Action Coalition (LAC) ReNae Bowman, Helen
(2 Board Members) 3rd Thursday, 5:00 p.m. Bassett
Generally third Monday,
Special Ed Advisory (SEAC) Quarterly, Monday, varies Caroline Long State Statute Committee
One works with team to determine the RFT Teacher of the Year, the other works with team to determine the
RFT Teacher of the Year & EA of ReNae Bowman, Kim RFT EA of the Year (15-20
the Year TBD, Spring only Holmes hour commitment)
Representatives to Out-of-District
Committees Meeting Info Representative(s) Alternate(s) Notes
AMSD 1st Friday, 7:30 a.m. Greta Evans-Becker ReNae Bowman School Board Chair
Brooklyn Bridge Alliance
(Board member must sit on board) Quarterly, Wednesday, 3 p.m. Aviva Hillenbrand Caroline Long
2 year term $4000.00
District 287 2nd & 4th Thursday, evening Caroline Long Helen Bassett stipend annually
October and one additional Superintendent and School
MDE TNEC Representative meeting each year Greta Evans-Becker Board Chair
MSBA Education
MSBA Delegate Assembly December (later) Application late summer
MSHSL Armstrong Helen Bassett
MSHSL Cooper Greta Evans-Becker
NSBA
Redesign Family Service
Collaborative (1 Board Member) 3rd Tuesday, 6:30 p.m. Helen Bassett
Originally approved: 1/6/25, Updated: 7/17/25