Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved December 16, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, December 2, 2024, beginning at 6:37 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:37 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent.
Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Approval of the Agenda
Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda.

Director Bassett moved and Director Evans-Becker seconded to approve the agenda with the change from second read to first read for item 7.D

Director Brooks moved to amend the agenda by removing item 2A from the work session agenda because it is out of order chronologically. Seconded by Director Bassett. Director Bassett called the question. The vote to Call the
Question was 7 yes and 0 no.

The vote on the amendment to remove item 2A from the work session agenda 2 yes: Bassett and Brooks and 5 no:
Vento, Long, Holmes, Bowman and Evans-Becker. The proposed amendment failed.

The motion to approve the agenda with the change for item 7.D carried with a voice vote.

Rdale Proud - Showcase: Sonnesyn Elementary - Implementing Effective Instructional Practices -
Bridge2Read and Catalyst

Mary Jane Adams, Principal of Sonnesyn Elementary

Ann St. Clair, Instructional Coach and EL Teacher

Marge Prohofsky, MTSS Coordinator

Michelle Azure, Assistant Principal

Alexandria (Ally) Adams, Current Center-Based EBD Teacher and District Alum

Ms. Adams and her team from Sonnesyn Elementary shared how Bridge2Read and Catalyst have provided teachers with effective instructional practices for teacher literacy and beyond. They highlighted both separately, as well as shared how they have complemented each other. In addition, they shared the powerful role that coaching has played in their successful implementation The presenters were provided with certificates in recognition of their presentation to the Board.

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch reminded everyone of the Rdale mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their

unique potential and positively contribute to their community, then shared some of the highlights since the last

meeting, including:

e Last month November 13-22, 2024 was American Education week, and Superintendent Staloch thanked district staff for their work on behalf of our students

e Regarding the budget - after the last Business Meeting's announcement of the $20M shortfall, there were immediate efforts to get the information to staff, families and community via press release, Learning Leaders meeting, union/bargaining group leaders meeting, email to staff, letter to families, FAC meeting, media interview, media conference prior to a town hall meeting at Cooper. Many emails have been received with concerns, comments, and calls for accountability. We have begun the process of looking at everything, and have many ready to help us work through it.

e Congratulations to the Robbinsdale Debate Team for qualifying for the 2025 National Debate Tournament!
From Cooper High School, students Lily Plahn and Tessa Lenoch are heading to nationals. This is Lily's third trip to the tournament and first time qualifying in Congressional Debate. For Tessa, it's the first time making it to nationals. Joining them is Armstrong student Alison Wandmacher, making a second consecutive appearance in

Congressional Debate. Cooper continues its strong tradition with this being their 17th trip to nationals in the last
23 years. Armstrong is also celebrating, as this marks their eighth consecutive trip. The National Debate and
Speech Tournament will be held June 15-20 in Des Moines, lowa.

e Cooper's Fall Original play, "A Midsummer Night's Dream Disaster - The Show Must Go On" opens with a preview matinee on Wednesday, December 4 at 4:30 p.m., then evening shows December 5-7 at 7:00 p.m.

e RSIS leaders presented regarding one-way to two-way dual language programming at the English Language
(EL) Education Conference

e Today, Superintendent Staloch visited FAIR Pilgrim Lane and saw 4-5 graders embracing the opportunity to lead with a growth mindset at a grade 1-3 assembly

Legislative Action Coalition (LAC) - Legislative Platform Draft

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities

Mr. Williams shared the LAC draft of the proposed legislative platform, which included the following:

e Increase the formula to ensure districts have adequate, reliable, and predictable funding to provide programs that ensure every student develops their unique potential

e Enhance Educator Workforce

The Legislative Session opens January 13, 2025, with Robbinsdale Legislative Tours tentatively scheduled for early

January. Time was provided afterwards for questions and/or feedback from the Board. The platform will be brought

back for action during the Business Meeting on Monday, December 16, 2024.

Investigation Report: Discussion regarding Board options for review and professional development

Liz J. Vieira and Mick Waldspurger from Squires, Waldspurger & Mace, PA.

Ms. Vieira and Mr. Waldspurger reviewed the memorandum they had provided to the Board regarding Follow-up on
Investigation Report, and their strong recommendation that the Board engage a facilitator trained in restorative practices (details were outlined in the memorandum) to work with them to determine the process and goals, or other team-building and professional development opportunities guided by professionals trained in that area. They also recommended that the conclusions reached/summarized in the investigator's report be accepted as valid. A robust discussion occurred.

Director Evans-Becker moved that all Board of Education members accept the conclusions in the investigative report as true, Director Holmes seconded the motion.

Director Bassett proposed an amendment to the motion removing the words "as true" from the end of the original motion, Director Evans-Becker seconded. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof:
Directors: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: Directors
Brooks and Vento. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Director Evans-Becker restated the motion that all Board of Education members accept the conclusions in the investigative report, as passed in Director Bassett's proposal. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Brooks. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Operations

A. Action - 1SD No. 281 and City of Plymouth Cost Share Agreement for the 36th Avenue Project
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval and waived reading, Director Vento seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor of the amended consent agenda thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same:
none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action - Changes to the 2024-2025 School Board Meeting Calendar
Director Bassett moved to approve moving the Superintendent Mid-Year Evaluation from Monday, December 16,
2024 to Tuesday, January 21, 2025 as a Closed Session pursuant to MN Statute 13D.05, Subd. 3(a) to follow the
Work Session, Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors: Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
The next meeting is scheduled for November 14, 2024 at 5:30 p.m.

C. Action - Application for Athletic cooperative between Armstrong/Cooper Wings and Northwest Passage High
School for Boys Swimming
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor of the amended consent agenda thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. First Read - Policies 203, 203.1, 209

Questions and feedback were received from the Board regarding the following 200 series policies:
e 203 Policy - Governance e 203.1 Policy - Conducting Board Business and Meetings e 209 Policy - Code of Ethics
It is intended that these policies will come for approval on December 16, 2024 at the Business Meeting.
E. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
There was no report this evening.
F. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee Report
It was noted that the Transportation RFP submissions were received from vendors, and results and recommendations will be brought to the Board during the Business Meeting on December 16, 2024.
G. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Report
There was no report this evening.
H. Policy Committee Report
There was no report this evening.
|. Administrative Reports
There were no reports this evening.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items are considered routine in nature and are enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Board member so requests, in which the item will be removed as a Consent
Agenda item, and addressed. Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor of the amended consent agenda thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjourn the Meeting

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.

Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
9:50 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

siones, <a> Lint bh pate: 2S 7: D2OLY

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281