Strategic Plan
Priority Work
Theme D
Staff Investment and
Impact
School Board
May 5, 2025

Team Champion, Members
Team Champion:
Amy O'Hern
Executive Director of Human Resources
Team members:
Anh Tran, Lana Lindeman, Tracy Moll,
Mike Bury, Brian Shreve, Heather Hanson,
Latisha Barzey

Purpose
1. Discuss Priority Work as it relates to Strategic Theme D1: Staff
Investment and Impact
2. Identify rationale, explain action plan for 2024-2025 and the deliverables that will be recommended to Dr. Staloch for
2025-2026

R
ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools
R R
2024-25 PRIORITIES
Rdale (RE)DISCOVER Rdale
RDALE
MISSION DISTRICT VISION
A
Academic Achievement
• Enhance cultural relevance of curriculum for students
RobbinsdaleArea Schoolsis committed to
The mission of
.
ensuring everystudent graduatescareer,
Enhance an equitable learning system from early
Robbinsdale Area articulated skilled tradesandcollege ready.
childhood to adults
Schools is to
Deepen preparation for life, college and career
We believe each student has limitless inspire and possibilities and westrive to ignite the educate all learners potential in everystudent.
PLAN
PLAN
to developtheir
B
We expect high intellectual performancefrom
Student Engagement and Wellness unique potential all ourstudents.
Improve student-staff connection and positively .
Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school
Weare committed to ensuring an equitable contribute to their and respectful educational experiencefor safety everystudent,familyand staff member.
community.
STRATEGIC THEMES CK Collaboration and Partnerships
PRIORITY OUTCOMES
이
Strengthen mutual communication and responsiveness
District prioritywork and goalsfocused on GROUNDED
IN EQUITY
with all stakeholders strategicthemeswillhelpachieveour
.
missionfor each student. Improve achievementfor students
Expand equitable inclusion and influence of student, ofcolor voice family, staff, and community
Academic Achievement readyfor school
A Allstudents are child reading at or above
Every grade-level
Academic and social-emotional
B
Student Engagement and middlegrades growth in
Wellness
D
Staff Investment and Impact
Student engagement in school and learning
• Cultivatethe districtculture to be inclusive, supportive,
Collaboration and Partnerships
C
Student supportfromfamiliesto and welcoming learnand achieve
Increase consistency and accountability for common
Clear path and readiness for career,
STRATEGIC
STRATEGIC
D Staff Investment and Impact and life district practices college
Believe.
Become.
Believe. Belong. Become.
Belong.

Strategic Theme

Strategic Theme
Theme D1
Staff Investment and Impact
Objectives
1. Enhance hiring and retention to support student success
2. Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive, and welcoming
3. Increase consistency and accountability for common district practices
4. Provide high quality professional development opportunities

R
ROBBINSDALE
System of Continuous
Improvement
Area Schools
Shared Leadership Model, Strategic Plan and Operational Plan
R
ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools
District Continuous Improvement
• (Re) Discover Rdale Strategic Plan
School Board Goals
District Priority Work
District Balanced Scorecard
Outcomes grounded in equity
Student-Centered
Strategic Themes
Academic Achievement
Personalized
Learning
Student Engagement and
Wellness
Collaboration and
Partnerships
Staff Investment and Impact
Professional Learning Department Continuous em and Improvement Plans (DCIPs)
Development
Professional Learning
School Improvement
Communities (PLCs)
Plans (SIPs)

2024-25 Priority Work
Priority Work
1. Analyze staff and exit survey data to determine employee gaps and needs.
2. Enhance onboarding experience for employees in consideration of the Five Essentials for Workplace
Mental Health and Well-Being.
3. Develop and share strategies for building trusting and highly effective communities

Action Plan
Foster an inclusive, supportive, and welcoming culture.
● Analyze exit survey data to understand why staff leave the district and what might have retained them
● Determine current onboarding practices and develop an enhanced and systemic process to support staff engagement, success, and retention
● Gather and centralize resources for leaders to build welcoming, trusting, and highly effective communities

Key Performance Indicators
Data Analysis*
● Majority of exiting staff (79%) indicate a positive experience in the district
● Dissatisfaction is largely due to employee concerns not being addressed fairly and promptly (33%)
● Primary reasons staff leave is there are other work opportunities (20%), retirement (13%), and combined factors related to leadership (23%)
*Based on 23-24 exit data

Key Performance Indicators
Onboarding
● 20% of exiting staff indicated their job duties and responsibilities were not clearly defined or that they did not receive the proper training
● Onboarding practices vary widely across departments and schools, designed and implemented by individual supervisors
● There is little continuity or understanding of what happens at each stage of onboarding, from HR orientation to departments and schools and for each type of employee group or position

Key Performance Indicators
Welcoming and Effective Community
● 24.7% of exiting staff did not believe they were treated as a valuable member
● Leaders cultivate their building or departments' culture and climate independently without systemic support
● A welcoming culture and climate improves morale, retains staff, increases collaboration, enhances student outcomes, attracts new talent, promotes diversity and inclusion, encourages innovation

Deliverables for 2025-26
Data Analysis
● 2023 Staff Survey
● Exit Data
Onboarding
● RAS Employee Welcome and
Onboarding
Community Building
● School Community Engagement
Resource Guide

Onboarding
Onboarding - Process of support and professional development over time to empower employees and instill the confidence and skills to take ownership of their position and contribute positively to our mission and vision.
Implementation Plan:
● HR/Technology make every effort to ensure technology access prior to start date
(impacted by new hire paperwork completion date)
● HR will provide work calendars at orientation
● Administrators include start time/work hours in recommendations for hire
● Pilot onboarding checklists with Education Assistants in 2025-2026 (departments will select a group)
● Sites establish a Welcome Packet: building map, emergency protocols, staff directory, key contacts list, job role and responsibilities
● Administrators send welcome email to new hires
● Site Orientation held during first week: building tour, roles and responsibilities, space for personal belongings

Welcome Email
● Can be a response to new hire
Welcome to [school], located at email from HR
[address]!
● Include:
Please plan to arrive at [time] and go
○ Site name and address to [location] where [name] will help
○ Arrival time and where to you get started. It will be easiest to go (office, specific room,
[insert helpful parking or entrance etc.)
instructions]. Here is a link to information [welcome packet] to
○ Who to connect with help you navigate your first few
○ Parking/entrance weeks.
instructions
○ Links to welcome packet
We are excited to have you join our team!
● Use template feature in email

EA Checklist

New Employee Checklist

Community Building Feedback
Community Building
In order to create a workplace that supports the mental health and well-being of staff, leaders must cultivate an environment that is built on trust and mutual respect. This creates a more positive and productive environment, benefiting everyone involved.
Implementation Plan:
● Leadership continues sharing ideas and resources through this document
● Set aside time to collaborate and discuss topics at each Learning Leader meeting

Action Plan
Foster an inclusive, supportive, and welcoming culture.
November 2024 December 2024 February/March April 2025 May 2025
Fall 2025
2025
Cabinet School
All Staff
Internal
Resource Learning
Presentation Board data review
Collection Leaders review
Presentation
Strategic Theme
Full implementation
Strategic Theme D1
Gathered Share with Strategic Theme
D1: Staff of onboarding and reviewed exit onboarding tools Learning Leaders D1: Staff
Investment and community building interview data and administrators were for input and Investment and
Impact staff survey data to using to review feedback Impact determine trends

Questions?

ROBBINSDALE

Strategic Theme

Academic Achievement
+ Enhance cultural relevance of curriculum for students
+ Enhance an equitable learning system from early childhood to adults
+ Deepen preparation for life, college and career

PLAN

}« Student Engagement and Wellness

+ Improve student-staff connection
+ Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school

Staff Investment and Impact safety

e Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive,

ss
~~

Coli. ptation and Partnerships

and welcoming + Strengther, | |)1al communication and responsiveness
. ers. with all stakehotue Increase consistency and accountability for common + Expand equitable inclus..!))>nd influence of student,

family, staff, and community ve

district practices

Staff Investment and Impact

* Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive, and welcoming

+ Increase consistency and accountability for common district practices

FRATEGI

5

Beli

ve. Belong. Become.

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

From Job offer to first day

>
=
a
£
i

Win 2

First 120 60

STATUS

EA Checklist

TASK NAME/ TOUCHPOINT

Create a new copy of onboarding checklist. Name file:
First_Last_EAOnboard. If you prefer, link as a standing agenda item into running agendas with staff who will be facilitating the plan.

HR sends hire letter
Employee completes new hire forms
Administrator sends welcome email

ASSIGNED TO

Human Resources

DUE DATE COMPLETE DAI

Orient location/work station, where to keep belongings
Guide staff with access to rdale website, email, calendar.
Review how to clock in and out using TruTime.

Ensure staff understand how to document absences in both Skyward and
AESOP

Facilitate a building orientation, staff introductions, and help provide schedule.

10 day check in with administrator

Administrator sets calendar appointments for 10, 30, 60 and 120 day follow up email.

30 day check in email with reminders
60 day check in

Template
Template

Schedule 120 day review and send invitation at least 10 days out

Hold probationary evaluation meeting and complete rubric to send to HR
by 120 day deadline.

120 Day
Calendar

Rubric

rom New Employee Checklist

DRAFT - RDALE New Employee Onboarding Document

Location: Contract Group

Employee Name
Recommendation for Hire
Orientation Date: Start Date:

Date:
STATUS TASK NAME/ TOUCHPOINT Link ASSIGNED TO DUE DATE COMPLETE DATE

Offer Letter
Background Check
HR Orientation

Rdale Staff Handbook

i
He ae ai

Badge Activiated
Email Credentials and Login Activated

Technology

Building

uz

ROBBINSDALE

'Area Schools

Questions?