To: School Board
From: Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Date: January 6, 2025 UPDATED April 22, 2025 (updates in red)
Re: Discussion of Meeting and Procedures Format
Goal #1: Bring recommendations from Attorneys Mick Waldspurger and Liz Vieira October 10,
2024 memo from professional development into practice
● Maintain focus on students
● Assume positive intent
● Formalities minimize personalities
● Transparency means preparation
○ Board members request all meeting materials be posted by noon on the Thursday prior to a board meeting. This change would provide more time for board members to review materials and prepare for meetings, and ensure all information was in the packet when sent to the Board. This change would replace the current Wednesday information being sent to the Board.
■ Outstanding questions
● Is there consideration from the Board to post materials at 4:00 pm on Thursday?
● When would the board packet be released to the public?
● Training
● Business Meetings v. Work/Study Sessions
● Be future-focused
Specifically,
● Formalize Board Reports to become Committee Reports as the purpose of Board Reports is for a Board representative appointed to an internal or external committee or organization to inform the rest of the Board about relevant work of the committee. Because the Board delegates representation with such a group to one or more Board members, those representatives are responsible for reporting back to the Board on the work they do on its behalf. (Did not discuss this exact issue but did agree to red bullet below on 4-7-22. Clarity needed to strike or adopt).
● Another recommendation is to assume there is no committee report unless (1) a Board representative on the committee asks to be on the agenda, or (2) another Board member requests that the representative(s) on an identified committee provide an update to the
Board. (Did not discuss this exact issue but did agree to red bullet below on 4-7-22. Clarity needed to strike or adopt).
● The Board discussed and agreed to a two-minute time limit per director on Board Reports, keeping information concise and relevant to Board work. It was also agreed that if there is nothing to report, board directors will state that there is no report. (agreed on 4-7-22)
● There has also been some discussion about having board reports prepared in writing to assist with meeting preparation and formalizing the reports. (agreed on 4-7-22)
● I would also like to recommend based on our last study session discussion that there is no board report summarizing the board listening time. I heard board members concerned that it is difficult to paraphrase what people have said so I would recommend we discontinue that practice. (Did not discuss or did not come to agreement on 4-7-25 on striking this or adopting this practice)

● Regarding Listening Time, I would also recommend that we maintain the current structure.
Anne Becker is planning to attend our next Listening Session and determine if there is language in the introductory statements and on the form to support improvements and clarity. (Did not discuss or did not come to agreement on 4-7-25 on striking this or adopting this practice)
Goal #2: Improved meeting efficiencies
● We will add estimated time allotments to each agenda item to support more focused and efficient meetings. The last two meetings went until midnight and almost 2:00 a.m.
respectively and no one is at their best at that hour. Time allotments have been added to agendas to help stay on track and this practice will continue. (agreed on 4-7-22)
● The Board will not meet past 10:00 p.m., unless under extenuating circumstances. (agreed on
4-7-22)
● In alignment with the recommendations offered by our legal team regarding holding just one business meeting and one study session per month, I would like to propose working toward the following:
○ The first business meeting each month will be more robust with either a short study (work)
session or no study (work) session. In consideration of the discussion by the Board, a revised recommendation is to move Listening Time to the first meeting of the month, followed by a robust Business Meeting, and no Study (Work) Session.
○ The second business meeting each month will be shorter brief, with only draft minutes and finance approvals on the agenda, as well as the occasional business action that is time restrictive. However The study (work) session will be more robust to support the shared goal of studying and discussing issues in detail before coming to the business meeting.
○ Requesting final agreement on this so we can create a meeting calendar and seek Board approval for 2025-26 Board Meeting dates.
Goal #3: Board Meeting: Sample Agendas First presented at Board PD - July 19-20, 2024
Business Meeting Sample Agenda
● Call to Order
● Roll Call
● Approval of Agenda
● Rdale Proud
● Consent Agenda
● Personnel Items (if needed)
● Unfinished Business (refers to any agenda items or matters that were not fully discussed or resolved during a previous meeting; additionally, the agenda items may be topics that were discussed during a study (work) session and now are being brought forward for action.
● New Business (refers to any topic or item that is being introduced for discussion for the first time, meaning it wasn't previously addressed in prior meetings and is now being brought up for consideration or as information sharing).
● Policy (policies brought forward for consideration will come to the board as a first read, and then as a second read for approval, if no policies are being considered the agenda will indicate, no report).
● Administrative and Board Committee Reports (superintendent report, then administrative, ending with board reports - board will share any committee updates and their reports)
● Future Events/Announcements
● Adjourn
Study (Work) Sessions Sample Agenda (aligned to BOE 2024-25 Goals, Agenda and Working
Document First presented at Board PD - July 19-20, 2024 - this would be planned out for the entire year (revised as needed) and used as an introduction at a part of each study/work session).
● Welcome
● Roll Call
● Purpose and Agenda

● District Governance and Policy
● Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction
● Board Governance
● Superintendent Relations
● Public Engagement
● Information Items
● Adjourn
Most of the Board Directors agreed to try the new agenda formats, and the proposed BOE Goals,
Agenda and Working Document. We will work on proposed changes and agreed upon recommendations with a target to begin with the new fiscal year - July 1, 2025. (agreed on 4-7-22)
Finance Advisory Council Follow-UP
CFO Hoheisel will follow up with the FAC at their next board meeting and bring forward

additional information, seek direction toward next steps.
Critical Incidents Communication Threshold to the Board Follow-Up
The Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee requested review of the document approved in
March of 2024 during Study (Work) Session on 4-7-22
Discussion of Memo from Attorney Mich Waldspurger (April 7, 2025)
● Introduction
● Reporting Requirements
● Legal and Practical Issues
○ States the protocol raises legal issues, including violation of Minnesota
Government Data Practices Act and FERPA
○ States the protocol raises practical issues, including the protocol being poorly written and difficult to follow, in addition to it imposing an unusual and unnecessary burden on administration
● Recommendations
○ "The board has a need to know about truly critical events, such as a student's posession of a firearm on school property. This type of event qualifies as a health and safety emergency. The Superintendent may legally communicate to the board and community about health and safety emergencies".
■ The current protocol in place is that board members receive the notices that go out to staff and families when there are health and safety concerns and incidents in schools.
○ "Also, at longer intervals, such as quarterly or at the end of the year, the Board has the right to access summary data about the number of Level 3 or Level 4
offenses that occured during the school year, or the number of suspensions that occurred. This high-level type of data can be provided without releasing personally identifiable information. This type of data disclosure would be appropriate so the Board can evaluate whether its policies are effective".
■ There was discussion that members of the ad hoc safety and security committee would work with Attorney Waldsburger to draft a usable and practical template of summary data to bring forward for discussion.
■ Administrators have included some student discipline summary data on the District Balanced Scorecard. The current measures can be discussed to determine if there are additional measures based on legal recommendations the board as a whole would like included. This data will be shared with the board in the End of the Year Report. In future years, the data will be shared with the board during the mid-year evaluation report and in the end-of-the-year report.
Additional Board Action
● The board determined to rescind the Critical Incidents Communication Threshold to the Board, as it forces the superintendent to violate the law.