Robbinsdale Area Schools
Independent School District 281
4148 Winnetka Ave N.
New Hope, MN 55427
763-504-8000 | rdale.org
To: School Board
From: Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Re: Level III Custodian Grievance
Date: July 7, 2025
The purpose of this memo is to update the board on a second grievance filed by a member of SEIU Local 284. I recommend that the grievance be advanced to arbitration in accordance with the terms outlined in the Custodial Collective
Bargaining Agreement (CBA).
The employee has followed all necessary procedural steps as afforded to him under the CBA grievance process. Specifically, the current Level III grievance before you pertains to his three-day suspension without pay, which was issued on April 11, 2025.
In response, he timely filed a Step Two grievance on May 16, 2025, and I responded in writing on June 6, 2025, thereby completing the administrative review process at
Step Two.
This Level III grievance is distinct and separate from his earlier grievance regarding the written reprimand issued on March 25, 2025, for which a separate grievance process was initiated on April 29, 2025, and responded to on May 22, 2025. While both matters involve the same employee, they are independent personnel actions and are being addressed on their own procedural timelines, as is his right under the due process provisions in the CBA.
Because this grievance clearly pertains to a disciplinary action covered under the
Agreement, and the employee has followed all necessary steps and timelines, the
Board is contractually obligated to either (a) provide a fair and impartial hearing and issue a decision within fifteen days, or (b) refer the matter to arbitration.
In this case, as the issue remains unresolved after the earlier levels of the grievance process, and given the seriousness of a suspension without pay, I respectfully recommend that the Board exercise its option to refer this grievance to arbitration as provided for in the contract. Doing so both upholds the integrity of the grievance procedure and ensures compliance with the collectively bargained agreement.
Believe | Belong | Become