Independent School District No. 281
ROBBINSDALE SCHOOL BOARD
BYLAWS
Presented at School Board Meeting: February 18, 2014
Approved and Adopted: February 18, 2014
Revised: September 30, 2015
Revised Bylaws Approved and Adopted: October 5, 2015
I. NAME
The name of this governing body is Independent School District 281 School Board. It is operated in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations pertaining to independent school districts in Minnesota.
II. LEGAL STATUS OF THE SCHOOL BOARD
The basis for the establishment and operation of the School Board lies in the State of Minnesota Constitution,
Minnesota Statutes, court interpretations of these laws, and the powers implied under them. The School Board shall have the general charge of the business, management and governance of the District's schools. Elected members of the School Board have binding authority only when acting as a School Board legally in session, except where specific authority is provided to the school board members or officers individually. The School Board is not bound by an action or statement on the part of an individual Board member unless the action is specifically directed or authorized by the school board.
III. SCHOOL BOARD MEMBERS AND ORGANIZATION
A. The membership of the School Board shall consist of seven elected members and the District Superintendent as an ex-officio, non-voting member.
B. The term of office of a Board member is four years, commencing on January 1 and continuing until a successor qualifies.
C. The organizational meeting shall be held in the first week in January, or as soon thereafter as possible, on such date and at such place as the Board shall designate.
D. The business of the organizational meeting shall include:
1. Administration of the oath of office to Board members if needed;
2. Election of officers for the ensuing year
3. Appoint Deputy Treasurer and Assistant Clerk
4. Declare conflict of interest
5. Set compensation rates for board members and board officers and transportation reimbursement rate
6. Authorize the Use of Facsimile Signatures and Surety Bond
IV. DUTIES OF OFFICERS
The School Board shall appoint a chair, vice chair, clerk, treasurer and other officers as determined by the Board. If an officer can not fulfill his or her duties, a new election is held.

A. CHAIR
The Chair shall:
1. Preside at all meetings of the School Board and ensure the orderly conduct of the meetings.
2. Develop board meeting agendas in consultation with the Superintendent and input from board members.
3. Ensure the Board takes action on only those issues that, according to board policy, belong to the Board to decide, not those falling within the purview of the Superintendent.
4. Confer with the Superintendent as may be necessary and desirable.
5. Ensure deliberations are fair, open, thorough, as well as efficient, timely, and to the point.
6. Ensure that Board policies are appropriately implemented.
7. Represent the Board to outside parties in announcing Board-stated positions and in stating decisions and interpretations within the areas assigned to the Chair. The Chair may delegate this authority, but remains accountable for its use.
8. Direct the Superintendent only with specific directions from the Board.
9. Ensure the Superintendent and Board evaluations are completed according to board procedures.
10. Appoint, in collaboration with the Board, individual board members to out-of-district, district and board committees and organizations.
11. Initiate, in collaboration with the Board, ad hoc committees to accomplish specific tasks.
12. Countersign orders upon the treasurer for claims approved by the Board.
13. Sign all contracts, agreements, deeds, and conveyances approved by the Board and all reports prepared by the administration that require the signature of the chair.
14. In case of the absence, inability, or refusal of the clerk to draw orders for the payment of money authorized by a vote of the majority of the Board to be paid, the chair may draw orders, or the office of the clerk may be declared vacant by the chair and treasurer and filled by appointment.
B. VICE CHAIR
The Vice Chair shall:
1. Perform the duties of the Chair in the event of the chair's temporary absence.
2. Assist Chair as requested in the execution of Chair responsibilities.
3. Participate in meetings with the chair and Superintendent to develop the Board agendas.
C. CLERK
The Clerk shall:
1. Perform the duties of the Chair in the temporary absence of the Chair and Vice-Chair.
The Clerk (or Assistant Clerk as the Clerk's designee) shall:
1. Keep a complete record of proceedings of the School Board at its meetings, including work sessions.
2. Assure accuracy of Board meeting minutes, and work session minutes.
3. Sign, or cause to be signed, all orders upon the Treasurer for payment of bills, salaries and contracts approved by the Board to be disbursed by the Treasurer.
4. Ensure publication of meeting and work session minutes online and in the local newspaper/
5. Perform all other duties imposed by Minnesota statutes and other such duties as may be assigned by the
School Board or the Superintendent of schools.

D. TREASURER
The Treasurer shall:
1. Perform the duties of the Chair in the temporary absence of the Chair, Vice-Chair and Clerk.
2. Serve as the Board representative on the Financial Advisory Council.
The Treasurer (or Deputy Treasurer as the Treasurer's designee) shall:
1. Deposit, upon receipt, all district funds in depositories designated and approved by the School Board.
2. Sign all orders upon the treasurer approved by the School Board, thereby converting the orders to checks.
3. Sign all contracts, agreements and all other reports that require the signature of the Treasurer.
4. Make certain that all records pertaining to the receipt and disbursement of district funds are properly maintained.
5. Receive, hold in custody and expend all funds as directed by the School Board.
6. Perform all other duties imposed by Minnesota statutes and other such duties as may be assigned by the School Board or the Superintendent of schools.
VV. CALL AND CONDUCT OF MEETINGS. CALL AND CONDUCT OF MEETINGS
Robert's Rules of Order shall govern School Board regular, special, and emergency meeting procedures. The School
Board may temporarily suspend Robert's Rules of Order at any meeting by a majority vote of the School Board members present.
A. CALL OF REGULAR MEETINGS
The Board shall meet as required by law. No action authorized or required by law shall be taken by the Board except in a meeting open to the public and after appropriate notice to the public as required by law.
B.B. CALL OF SPECIAL MEETINGS CALL OF SPECIAL MEETINGS
1. Special meetings of the Board may be called by the chair, clerk or any three members of the board.1. Special meetings of the Board may be called by the chair, clerk or any three members of the board.
2. Notice of special meetings will be provided to each Board member at least three (3) days prior to such2. Notice of special meetings will be provided to each Board member at least three (3) days prior to such meetings. The notice shall include the time, place and purpose of the meeting.meetings. The notice shall include the time, place and purpose of the meeting.
3. Board powers shall be the same at special meetings as at regular meetings.3. Board powers shall be the same at special meetings as at regular meetings.
C. CALL OF EMERGENCY MEETINGS
1. Emergency meetings are special meetings called because of circumstances that, in the judgment of the board, require immediate consideration.
2. Notice of emergency meeting shall be given to board members by telephone or any other method used to notify the members of the school board.
3. Board powers shall be the same at special meetings as at regular meetings.

D. CALL OF CLOSED MEETINGS
1. The school board may, by majority vote in a public meeting, decide to hold a closed meeting for a purpose defined in statute.
2. The time and place of the closed meeting shall be announced at the public meeting.
3. Closed meetings shall be recorded as required by statute.
VI. BOARD MEETING MINUTES
A. MAINTENANCE OF MINUTES AND RECORDS
1. The clerk shall ensure that permanent records of School Board minutes and proceedings are kept. A
copy of all motions and the names of the persons making and seconding motions shall be recorded.
Each board member's vote shall be recorded if the vote is not unanimous.
2. Minutes of meetings shall be available for inspection at the administrative offices of the District after they have been prepared.
3. Meeting minutes shall be approved by the Board at a subsequent meeting, and signed by the clerk after approval.
B. PUBLICATION OF OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
1. Copies of minutes shall be given to all Board members.
2. The Board shall publish its minutes in its official newspaper as soon as practicable. The proceedings to be published may be a summary of the meeting if the summary adequately informs the public of the substance of the proceedings.
VII. QUORUM
No meeting shall be convened nor any business transacted by the Board unless a quorum of its members are present either in person or through other means. A quorum of the Board consists of a majority of the Board members.
VIII. FISCAL YEAR
The fiscal year of the Board shall commence on July 1 and end on June 30 of each year.
IX. CORPORATE SEAL
The Board shall have no corporate seal.
X. AMENDMENTS TO BYLAWS
The Bylaws may be amended by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members present at any meeting of the
Board, provided that the proposed amendment has been submitted in writing to all School Board members at least twenty (20) days prior to such meeting.