ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Reviewed November 18, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, November 4, 2024 at
8:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:

https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary

minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Robbinsdale Area Schools School Board Handbook Draft for Review
ReNae Bowman, School Board Chair
Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk

Chair Bowman and Clerk Evans-Becker guided the Board through the second draft of the School Board Handbook, noting revisions that had been made. They assigned the "District Identity' section to the Cabinet to complete. Chair Bowman will review the recommended updates submitted by Director Brooks. Cabinet will work to get their remaining pieces finalized by Friday, November 8, and Chair Bowman and the Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board will work together to finalize the formatting. The goal is to have this completed in time to onboard newly-elected directors, though it will be a fluid document - receiving updates as needed to keep it current.

Other - Board Conversation regarding the Investigation
Kim Holmes, School Board Director

Director Holmes said she received an email from Director Brooks about wanting to add the discussion regarding the investigation agreed upon by the Board on September 4, 2024 added to the agenda, and she wanted it on the agenda for
November 4, 2024. Director Holmes asked for clarification regarding the process for determining what goes on the agenda, as the request was declined at agenda setting. Discussion regarding bringing the discussion forward regarding the investigation ensued. After a lengthly discussion, Director Holmes asked what sort of appetite the Board had for having this conversation via thumbs up/down to let the agenda setting team know if a discussion is wanted. Four put thumbs up, three put thumbs down. It was agreed that the discussion would come back to a Work Session, facilitated by the attorney(s).

Work Session adjourned at 9:02 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board