Strategic Plan
Priority Work
Theme D
Staff Investment and
Impact
Status Update to the Board of Education
Kristen Hoheisel
Team Champion

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.
2

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Purpose
1. Discuss Priority Work as it relates to the Strategic Plan
2. Showcase the work being performed
3. Identify plans, timelines and next steps moving forward

Strategic Theme

Strategic Theme
Theme D
Staff Investment and Impact
Objective
Increase consistency and accountability in common district practices

Team Champion, Members
Team Champion:
Kristen Hoheisel
Chief Financial Officer
Team members:
Nancy Froelich, Willie Howard, Melissa
Jackson, Carrie Johnson, Colleen
Kennedy, Maureen Mullen, Jennifer
Smith, Tamiko Thomas
Meetings:
October 15, October 29, November 18

2024-25 Priority Work
Priority Work
1. Standardize common operating procedures, practices, expectations and norms
2. Standardize the forms used for common procedures and practices
3. Implement the use of consistent forms and practices district-wide

Key Performance Indicators
● Clear standard operating procedures, practices, and expectations and that are the implemented consistently across the district
● Staff follow same procedures, practices, and expectations district wide

Deliverables for 2024-25
Standardized process for the distribution and management of building keys
● Key control and key management is consistent district-wide
● Key check-out/check-in forms and practices are consistent district-wide
● Key access levels for staff and community users are determined and set by the Safety and Security Team

Deliverables for 2024-25
Standardize Annual Staff Check-out /
Exit Checklist
Examples of items on checklist:
★ Technology
★ Curriculum
★ Library books
★ Keys
★ Walkie Talkie
★ Voicemail change
★ Email notification change
★ Classroom repairs needed

Action Plan
Key Control and Management Timeline
Dec / Jan 2025 Jan / Feb 2025 Feb / Mar 2025 Mar / April 2025 April / May 2025
June 2025
Cabinet Learning Strategic Admin and
Internal staff
All Staff review Leaders review Plan D group Staff review
Cabinet to review Provide revised forms
Safety/Security Full implementation
Plan D group
Share forms and working documents, and process to of key control and
Team set key reconvene to revise process with process, roll-out and administration to control guidelines; key management forms and process
Learning Leaders training plan for share with building process
PDSA Team develop based on feedback; for feedback input / edits level staff standardized key coordinate any control check-in/out needed action with process and forms;
Facilities/Operations
District Directors and/or Safety and review
Security Team

Action Plan
Annual Staff Check-out / Exit Checklist
Dec / Jan 2025 Jan / Feb 2025 Feb / Mar 2025 Mar / April 2025 April / May 2025
June 2025
Strategic Admin and
All Staff
Internal staff
Cabinet Learning
Plan D group Staff review review Leaders review
Provide revised
Full implementation
Facilities, finance,
Cabinet review Share with Planning group to documents to of checkout / exit human resources working documents Learning Leaders reconvene to revise administration to checklist and technology to for input / edits for feedback checklist(s) based share with review on feedback building level staff

Questions?

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

' ie <citl H iV : SS
ie ISCOVER RDALE 4-25 PRIORITIES

MISSION DISTRICT VISION

The mission of Robbinsdale Area Schools is committed to

i ensuring every student gradual
RobbinsdaleArea articulated skied trades and colle
Schools is to

inspire and Ox

educate all learners

ta NN prely We expect high intellectual performance from unique potential allour student

and positively , :
: : We are committed to ensuring an equitable contribute to their and respectful educational experience for community. every student, family and staff member

Academic Achievement
+ Enhance cultural relevance of curriculum for students
* Enhance an equitable learning system from early childhood to adults
* Deepen preparation for life, college and career

@& Student Engagement and Wellness
* Improve student-staff connection
+ Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety

Collaboration and Partnerships
+ Strengthen mutual communication and responsiveness with all stakeholders
« Expand equitable inclusion and influence of student, family, staff, and community voice

STRATEGIC THEMES

trict priority work and goals focused on itegic themes will help achieve our mission for each student,

PRIORITY OUTCOMES
GROUNDED IN EQUITY

i
|
|
|
I
| + improve achievement for students
| ofcolor
'Academic Achievement |» allstudents are ready for school
| + Every child reading at or above
| grade-level
|
I
I
|
|
I
|
|
|
|
I

(BO Student Engagement and

Wellness

'Academic and social-emotional growth in middle grades

Student engagement in school and learning

Student support from families to learn and achieve

Clear path and readiness for career, college and life

& Staff Investment and Impact

+ Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive, and welcoming

+ Increase consistency and accountability for common district practices

Collaboration and Partnerships

STRATEGIC PLAN

Zz
<
-
ae
Y
O
Lu
IE
<L
ag kK
Y

Ox Staff Investment and Impact

Believe. Belong. Become. Believe. Belong. Become.

\

ew System of Continuous Improvement

Area Schools

Shared Leadership Model, Strategic Plan and Operational Plan

ROBBINSDALE ° * .
Area Schools District Continuous Improvement

« (Re)Discover Rdale Strategic Plan
* School Board Goals

* District Priority Work

¢ District Balanced Scorecard

.

Outcomes grounded in equity

Student-Centered
Personalized Learning

Strategic Themes
+ Academic Achievement
« Student Engagement and
Wellness
¢ Collaboration and
Partnerships
« Staff Investment and Impact

Professional Learning and Development

Professional Learning
Communities (PLCs)

\

ROBBINSDALE

Strategic Theme ''@™'=

Raaie

PRIORITIE

Academic Achievement
+ Enhance cultural relevance of curriculum for students
+ Enhance an equitable learning system from early childhood to adults
+ Deepen preparation for life, college and career

PLAN

e& Student Engagement and Wellness

+ Improve student-staff connection
+ Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school

[De Staff Investment and Impact safety

e Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive,

s&s
~~

Colia.yration and Partnerships

and welcoming + Strengthen. |)):1al communication and responsiveness
. ers. with all stakehotu-
¢ Increase consistency and accountability for common » Sepend stdin hott ed inficenen nition, district practices family, staff, and community ve.

& Staff Investment and Impact

* Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive, and welcoming

+ Increase consistency and accountability for common district practices

FRATEGI

5

Beli

ve. Belong. Become.

uz

ROBBINSDALE

'Area Schools

Questions?