Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Policy 208
Adopted:
208 POLICY - POLICY DEVELOPMENT, ADOPTION, IMPLEMENTATION, AND REVIEW
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this Policy is to describe the policymaking process.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
Board members have adopted a policy governance model in which the Board is responsible for adopting policies to set the vision for the District, and monitoring progress toward achievement of that vision.
The Board's careful consideration, adoption, and regular review of policies is a critical part of its governance role. Through the policymaking process, the Board provides its vision for the results the District and school community must achieve. Policy implementation, as well as the development of administrative procedures, is delegated to the Superintendent.
Policies adopted by the Board have the force and effect of law for the District. Any person or group including, but not limited to, Board members, District employees, District students, and/or other individuals and groups as may be specified in particular policies, must comply with all Board policies that pertain to them.
III. DEVELOPMENT, ADOPTION, AND REVISION OF POLICIES
All Board policies must comply with applicable state and federal laws, rules, and regulations.
In addition, Board policies must be clear, concise, accessible, and follow a consistent format.
A. Policy Requests
Requests for new Board policies may be submitted to the Board Chair and the
Superintendent. The Board Chair and Superintendent will review the request and determine whether to recommend that the Board refer the request to the Policy
Committee or, in the absence of a Policy Committee, to a Board work session for
DRAFT
consideration. All requests must be considered in light of the policy governance model which recommends keeping the number of Board policies to the minimum necessary for effective governance.
B. Development and Revision
1

When developing, reviewing, and revising policies, the Board may direct the
Superintendent to inform the process by consulting with representatives of the groups who are or will be most impacted by a policy.
C. Review
1. General Schedule
Board policies must be reviewed annually to ensure compliance with applicable statutes, laws, and regulations. This annual compliance review may be delegated to the Superintendent, except for those policies which legally must be reviewed on an annual basis by the Board. In addition, Board policies must be reviewed, at a minimum, every three years to ensure that they are necessary, effective, consistent with Board priorities, and meeting the current needs of the District,
District students and staff, and the school community as a whole.
2. Request
A Board member or members may request that a policy be reviewed at any time. The Board will decide, by majority vote of a quorum of the Board, whether to initiate the review.
3. Role of the Superintendent
The Superintendent must notify the Board when policies are out-of-date, out of compliance, or otherwise in need of revision.
D. Notice and Adoption
The Board must provide notice of its intent to adopt new policies, or revise existing ones, by placing the item on the agenda of two Board meetings, except as provided in
Sections IV and VI. At the first meeting, the Board will hold a first reading and an opportunity for discussion of the new or revised policy. At the second meeting, there will be a second reading, another opportunity for discussion, and - in most cases -
Board action. Although Board members may propose amendments to policy proposals at either of the two meetings, the policymaking process is generally more efficient and transparent when amendments are proposed at the first reading.
E. Effective Date
DRAFT
A new or revised policy is effective immediately following a majority vote of a quorum of the Board in favor of its adoption, unless another effective date is specified.
IV. SUSPENSION OF POLICIES
Any section or sections of Board policies not required by law or contract may be temporarily suspended by a majority vote of a quorum of the Board at a regular or special meeting. The suspended section(s) may be reinstated by the same process.
2

V. EMERGENCY ADOPTION OF POLICIES
A. Only One Board Meeting Required
Under unusual and rare circumstances, the Board may temporarily approve a new or revised policy to meet emergency conditions without holding two meetings. A majority vote of a quorum of the Board is required to adopt an emergency policy. A statement describing the emergency and explaining the need for immediate adoption must be shared at the meeting and included in the minutes. The Board has the discretion to determine what constitutes an emergency.
B. Expiration
Emergency policies automatically expire one year after their adoption or immediately following Board action to adopt, revise, or repeal the emergency policy under the policymaking process in Section III, whichever occurs first.
VI. CONSENT AGENDA
Board policies scheduled for routine review that have no substantive changes, or have been revised only as required by applicable statutes, laws, or rules, may be placed on the Board's consent agenda and acted upon at that meeting.
VII. IMPLEMENTATION OF BOARD POLICY
A. Role of the Superintendent
The Superintendent is responsible for the implementation of Board policies, except for those pertaining to Board governance, and the development of administrative procedures for that purpose.
B. Administrative Procedures
The purpose of administrative procedures is to provide greater specificity and consistency in the process of policy implementation. The Board reserves the right to review administrative procedures. In keeping with its governance role, the Board will not revise procedures unless two-thirds of a quorum of the Board agrees that a procedure is substantively and materially inconsistent with a Board policy. A statement describing the inconsistency and explaining the need for the revision must be shared atDRAFT
the meeting and included in the minutes.
C. Absence of Board Policy
In the event that the Superintendent must make a decision or take an action in which time is of the essence and for which there is no guidance in an existing Board policy or administrative procedure, the Superintendent or their designee is empowered to make
3

decisions and/or act as needed and report such decision or action to the Board as soon as possible afterwards.
D. Policy and Procedure Dissemination
The Superintendent must ensure that Board policies and the administrative procedures necessary to implement them are, at a minimum, posted on the District's website. The
Superintendent must also include specific policies and/or procedures in Student and/or
Employee Handbooks as required by applicable law.
The following references include some of the laws, regulations, and/or policies which are related to the topics
DRAFT
contained in this Policy. This is not an exhaustive list and is provided for information purposes only.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 123B.02, Subd. 1 (School District Powers)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.09, Subd. 1 (School Board Powers)
Cross References: None
4