Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
April 22, 2025

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Volunteer Appreciation Week

Dease Scholarship Recipient
Armstrong senior Kennie Garpue was recently awarded a prestigious Dease Scholarship from the University of St. Thomas.
● Each year, the Dease Scholarship
Program awards 10 four-year, full-tuition scholarships to first-year students who demonstrate commitment to academic excellence, leadership, and their communities.
● Garpue is a senior captain of the Afro
Empire Dance Team and a four-year participant in the AVID program.

Secondary Visual Art Show
The Rdale secondary visual art show is currently being held at the Robbin Gallery. It began on April 10 and goes through April 27.
● The show features wonderful artwork from middle and high school students across the district.
● Pieces include ceramics, digital art, drawing, photography, and more.
● Each secondary school submitted roughly a dozen pieces to the exhibit.

Virtual Art Gallery
The 2024-25 Rdale virtual art gallery is now live for students, staff, families, and the greater community to view and share.
● The gallery features fantastic works of art from students across every grade level throughout the district.
● Many different techniques, themes, and mediums are found in the gallery, which is sorted by school.

SEA Welcomes International Guests
On April 8, the School of Engineering and Arts welcomed STEM leaders from Australia,
India, and Japan as part of the International
Visitor Leadership Program for a special visit.
● They heard from four fifth-grade students, who shared details about their hands-on project raising Rainbow Trout from eggs to release in the wild this May.
● Guests observed learning in two second-grade classrooms and a kindergarten class utilizing one of SEA's outdoor learning spaces.

Reimagine Rdale update
Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 has reached
11,348 engagement touchpoints- 23% of our
50,000 goal-with more opportunities ahead.
This week we'll begin engaging with our elementary students-in a fun and age-appropriate way. We've created special activity books that invite our youngest learners to get creative as they imagine what their school experience can be in the future.

Thank You

Volunteer Appreciation Week

THANK YOU

RDALE
VOLUNTEERS

uz

BORE akon T h a Nn Ke Yo U