Robbinsdale Area Schools
Independent School District 281
Approved: August 7, 2017
Revised: April 9, 2025
534 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE - UNPAID MEAL CHARGES
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this administrative procedure is to ensure that students receive healthy and nutritious meals through the school district's nutrition program and that school district employees, families, and students have a shared understanding of expectations regarding meal charges. The administrative procedure of the school district is to provide meals to students in a respectful manner and to maintain the dignity of students by prohibiting lunch shaming or otherwise ostracizing the student. The administrative procedure seeks to allow students to receive the nutrition they need to stay focused during the school day and minimize identification of students with insufficient funds to pay for a la carte items or second school meals as well as to maintain the financial integrity of the school nutrition program.
II. PAYMENT OF MEALS
If the school district participates in the United States Department of Agriculture National School
Lunch program and has an Identified Student Percentage below the federal percentage determined for all meals to be reimbursed at the free rate via the Community Eligibility Provision must participate in the free school meals program.
A school that participates in the United States Department of Agriculture National School Lunch program and has an Identified Student Percentage at or above the federal percentage determined for all meals to be reimbursed at the free rate must participate in the federal Community Eligibility
Provision in order to participate in the free school meals program.
A. Each school that participates in the free school meals program must:
(1) participate in the United States Department of Agriculture School Breakfast Program and the United States Department of Agriculture National School Lunch Program; and
(2) provide to all students at no cost up to two federally reimbursable meals per school day, with a maximum of one free breakfast and one free lunch.
DRAFT
If the school district receives school lunch aid under Minnesota Statutes section 124D.111, it must make lunch available without charge to all participating students who qualify for free or reduced-price meals regardless of account balance.
B. Once a meal has been placed on a student's tray or otherwise served to a student, the meal may not be subsequently withdrawn from the student by the cashier or other school official, whether or not the student has an outstanding meal balance.

C. When a student has a negative account balance, the student will not be allowed to charge a snack item.
D. If a parent or guardian chooses to send in one payment that is to be divided between sibling accounts, the parent or guardian must specify how the funds are to be distributed to the students' accounts. Funds may not be transferred between sibling accounts unless written permission is received from the parent or guardian.
III. LOW OR NEGATIVE ACCOUNT BALANCES
A. The school district will make reasonable efforts to notify families when meal account balances are low or fall below zero.
B. Families will be notified of an outstanding negative balance once the negative balance reaches (-$5.00). Families will be notified by email or letters sent via USPS.
C. Reminders for payment of outstanding student meal balances will not demean or stigmatize any student participating in the school lunch program, including, but not limited to, dumping meals, withdrawing a meal that has been served, announcing or listing students' names publicly, providing alternative meals not specifically related to dietary needs; providing non reimbursable meals; or affixing stickers, stamps, or pins.
IV. UNPAID MEAL CHARGES
A. The school district will make reasonable efforts to communicate with families to resolve the matter of unpaid charges.
B. The school district will make reasonable efforts to collect unpaid meal charges classified as delinquent debt. Unpaid meal charges are designated as delinquent debt when payment is overdue, the debt is considered collectable, and efforts are being made to collect it.
C. The school district may not enlist the assistance of non-school district employees, such as volunteers, to engage in debt collection efforts.
D. The school district will not use a debt collections agency to engage in debt collection efforts.
E. The school district will not impose any other restriction prohibited under Minnesota
Statutes, section 123B.37 due to unpaid student meal balances. The school district will not
DRAFT
limit a student's participation in any school activities, graduation ceremonies, field trips, athletics, activity clubs, or other extracurricular activities or access to materials, technology, or other items provided to students due to an unpaid student meal balance.
V. COMMUNICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
A. This administrative procedure and any pertinent supporting information shall be provided in writing (i.e., mail, email, back-to-school packet, student handbook, etc.) to:

1. all households at or before the start of each school year;
2. students and families who transfer into the school district, at the time of enrollment; and
3. all school district personnel who are responsible for enforcing this administrative procedure.
B. The school district will post this administrative procedure on the school district's website, or the website of the organization where the meal is served, in addition to providing the required written notification described above.
C. If the school district contracts with a third party for its meal services, it will provide the vendor with its school meals administrative procedure. The school district will ensure that any third-party provider with whom the school district enters into either an original or modified contract after July 1, 2021, adheres to the school district's school meals administrative procedure.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 124d.111, Subd. 4
42 U.S.C. § 1751 et seq. (Healthy and Hunger-Free Kids Act)
Minn. Rules Parts 1205.0100-1205.2000 (Data Practices)
7 C.F.R. §210 et seq. (School Lunch Program Regulations)
7 C.F.R. §220.8 et seq. (School Breakfast Program Regulations)
USDA Policy Memorandum SP 46-2016, Unpaid Meal Charges: Local Meal
Charge Policies (2016)
USDA Policy Memorandum SP 47-2016, Unpaid Meal Charges:
Clarification on Collection of Delinquent Meal Payments (2016)
USDA Policy Memorandum SP 23-2017, Unpaid Meal Charges: Guidance and
Q&A
Cross References: Wellness Policy 533
DRAFT