Rdale Proud:
RMS Robins Break
Shirrie T. Jackson
Principal, Robbinsdale Middle School
April 7, 2025

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these
Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

RMS Robins Break
What is it?
● Occasional movement breaks in the gym A/B or outside the last 10-15
minutes of lunch
● Movement: Basketball, walking, volleyball, soccer, double dutch - you must be moving
● If Robins want to stay in the cafeteria and chat with friends that is fine.
● Kick off Date: Monday, Jan. 13, 2025

Let's Get Moving!
The Plan
● Student Advisory video and pre-assessment
● Cafeteria Zone Leaders will release tables for movement breaks
● All students will have been served food before anyone can go on Robins Break
● As tables are released if a student is not finished eating will still be able to go when they have finished eating

Structure & Systems In Place
The Plan
● Walk calmly to the gym through door C
● Robins Break in the Gym A/B or outside.
HAVE FUN!
● Help put equipment away
● Specific exit for all students
● Students in cafeteria will continue to use same routes back to class

Let's Play!
The Activities
● Gym A - half court basketball
● Gym B - soccer, double dutch, volleyball
Alignment to (Re)Discover Rdale
● Theme B - Student Engagement
● Objectives 1 - 4
Alignment to RMS SIP
● School Climate>Reading>Math

Robin Break Testimonials
From RMS Students (Robins)
● "I love RB! It reminds me of recess in elementary school."
● "I look forward to playing with my friends and the staff."
● "After RB, I can focus on what my teacher is saying."
From RMS Staff
● "My students are calmer, more focused."
● "Our student engagement is higher after RB."
● "Great exercise for all of us!"

Robins Break in Action!

Next Steps...
● Post Survey for Students and Staff -
continue to research effects of recess and adolescents
● Add outside component (Spring 2025)
● Utilize GaGa Pit (TBD)
● Invite Dr. Staloch, cabinet to come play with us!
● Invite families and community to experience Robins Break at an evening event

Questions?

\
Ly a SS
rORBNSOAe Robins Break in Action!

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

Questions?