2025 Legislative Platform
Legislative Action Coalition lac.rdale.org
DRAFT
EXCELLENCE IS OUR STANDARD
Robbinsdale Area Schools is committed to ensuring every student develops their unique potential and graduates career and college ready. To support comprehensive academic achievement and prepare students to be lifelong learners, we urge the Governor and Legislators to address the following critical issues:
Increase the formula to ensure districts have adequate, reliable, and predictable funding to provide programs that ensure every student develops their unique potential
● Recognize and fully fund Extended Time programming. Make
Extended Time revenue equal to the basic general education revenue so districts can provide high quality extended day and summer programming to students in grades 1-12. Extended time programming supports students in catching up both academically and socially-emotionally, increasing school attendance, progress, and on time graduation. The estimated cost of this update is $15 million.
• Increase funding to cover the actual cost of providing Special Education and English
Learning services. For the 2024-2025 school year, it is estimated Robbinsdale Area Schools will use $11.3 million from the general fund to cover unreimbursed Special
Education costs. It is also worth noting Robbinsdale Area
Schools spent almost $2 million during the 2023-2024
school year to cover English Learning services.
● Increase the Safe Schools Levy and expand its allowable usage to address the growing mental health needs of students. The Safe Schools levy amount has remained at $36 per the district's adjusted pupil units since 2014.
Times have changed dramatically. Our students deserve the school-based mental health services needed to navigate the effects of COVID and increasing social pressures. Allow school districts to make the needed building modifications including purchasing systems and equipment to keep our buildings safe.
Enhance Educator Workforce
● Maintain and expand pathways to teacher licensure, including strengthening programs such as the Grow Your Own and teacher apprenticeship programs to recruit and retain teachers of color and teachers in shortage areas. Maintain the tiered licensing system to ensure multiple pathways for licensure.
Questions or additional information contact anthony_williams@rdale.org or 763-504-8013