2024 - 2025
Lakeview
Rdale Pride

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.

Exhibition
The PYP (Primary Years Programme) Exhibition is a culminating project that represents a significant learning experience for scholars in the final year of the PYP. It is an opportunity for scholars to showcase their abilities to conduct in-depth inquiries, apply their understanding of transdisciplinary skills and demonstrate their commitment to the PYP learner profile attributes.
The PYP Exhibition supports learner agency by empowering scholars to take ownership of their learning process. Scholars are encouraged to identify and explore a real-life issue or opportunity that resonates with them, allowing them to pursue their personal interests and passions.

Emmanuel
Central Idea:
Space Pollution
Lines of Inquiry:
How space pollution affects the ozone layer
Human causes of space pollution

Robbie, Maslah & Titus
Central Idea:
People affect the world in both good and bad ways
Lines of Inquiry:
Types of pollution around the world
Impact of pollution around the world
How people cause pollution
How people can prevent/repair pollution

Afton & Brooklyn
Central Idea:
People of the past shape the present and future
Lines of Inquiry:
Important people in Ancient Greece
Life and culture of people in Ancient Greece
Elements of Ancient Greek culture that have influenced life today

Lavell, Dejuan & Lizandro
Central Idea:
Technology is always evolving through human innovation
Lines of Inquiry:
Basic components of cars
The development of cars over the years
Present and future technology of cars

Global Communicators
Night
Thursday, 29 May, 2025

Questions?

Thank you.

2024 - 2025
Lakeview
Rdale Pride

KILLS AND
Gee No.
a "R55
F, concer; "A YH

ca)
%
wr

Questions?

- \

Thank you.

- \