Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

LP oBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting

*""Approved February 3, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, January 21,2025, beginning at 7:02 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim Holmes, and
Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Absent: Sharon E. Brooks. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda.

MOTION: Director Bassett moved to approve the Business Meeting agenda, and Director Bowman seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

Rdale Proud - Showcase: FAIR Pilgrim Lane - Magnet Focus

Nancy Froelich, Principal

Cristy Larsen, 2nd Grade Teacher and District Alum

Jordan Gray, 3rd Grade Teacher and District Alum

Trudy Monette and Megan Collins, Stages Theatre Staff

5th Grade Students: Miles Alexander, Lila Carlson, Lilith Dupay, Linus Foss-Pdrnos, Kadale Jackson, Savannah
Jackson, Ziaasia Kamara, Cha'thai KeawLeaw, Elias Leiva, Andrina McKinnon, and Hazel Smith

The presentation educated and informed attendees about the FAIR Pilgrim Lane Art Integration and Stages Theatre
Magnet School. Led by Principal Froelich, Ms. Larsen, Ms Gray, Ms Monette and Ms. Collins, the session provided an overview of the program's unique approach to integrating arts into education. Highlights included a video showcasing the school's engaging activities and a synopsis of a Second Step Curriculum play, illustrating the program's commitment to fostering creativity, collaboration, and social-emotional learning among its students. The students performed the play.

FY24 Audit Presentation

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Brad Falteysek, CPA/Partner and Tyler See, CPA/Manager from Abdo, our auditing firm

Ms. Hoheisel, Mr. Falteysek, and Mr. See provided a final review of the 2023-2024 audit, and recommended moving it to action at the February 3, 2025 Business Meeting.

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique

potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates

career, articulated trades and college ready. She provided an update on activities, which included a presentation

highlighting:

e January 11, 2025 - Kindergarten Information Fair showcasing Rdale's kindergarten program and Early Childhood offerings was a big success with over 100 families (about 350 attendees) joining at FAIR Crystal

e January 12, 2025 - Cooper DECA team members competed at the DECA Districts competition... five students qualified for the State competition: Melat Kiflu (qualified in two events), Mario Martines-Morales, Catalina Montejo
(qualified in two events), Pearl Swift, and Vision Wonken. Additional Competitors: Lynette Jaimes, Ashley Romero
Robles, and Maria Valenzuela Salazar

e Thanks to aa $210,000 grant from Hennepin County, GaGa Ball pits will be installed at all Rdale schools, ensuring equitable access to this inclusive and engaging game

e Armstrong Quiz Bowl team made a remarkable return this year after an eight-year hiatus - competing in their second event they went 4-0, with Evie Johnson earning 3rd place in individual scoring out of 97 students. Team members include: Yonathan Getachew, Rose Freiberg, Evie Johnson and Ava Holton

e January 10, 2025

Update: State of the Budget, Reimagine Rdale

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Dr. Staloch and Ms. Hoheisel went through the presentation that will be further shared with the community on
February 23, 2025 at the Town Hall Meeting at Armstrong. They went through where the district is in addressing the budget shortfall, working on revising the 2024-2025 budget while creating the 2025-2026 budget. They also discussed the process for Reimagine Rdale, and all of the facets to go along with it. Discussion followed, with a request for abundant community participation.

Operations
A. Second Read/Action: 200 Series of Policies: 208 RAS Policy - Policy Development, Adoption, Implementation and Review, 209 RAS Policy - Code of Ethics, and 214 RAS Policy - Board Professional Development and
Out-of-State Travel
Each policy was brought forth for a vote separately:
208 RAS Policy - Policy Development, Adoption, Implementation and Review
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Hillenbrand seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Long
Voting against: Bassett
Motion prevailed with a 5-1 vote.
209 RAS Policy - Code of Ethics
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.
214 RAS Policy - Board Professional Development and Out-of-State Travel
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.
Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
The next meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, February 4, 2025 from 4:30-6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at ESC.
Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee Report
No update this evening.
Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Report
No update this evening.
Policy Committee Report
The next Policy Committee Meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, January 28, 2025 from 6:00-7:00 p.m. in the
Boardroom at ESC.
H. Administrative Updates e Human Resources: Follow up on Open Special Education Positions
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Ms. O'Hern provided the following information regarding the special education positions that are currently open in the district:
2 - teachers at New Hope Learning Center
10 - educational assistants (EAs) for center-based (district fills these first due to student needs)
5 - EAs for resource
Discussion occurred, and some directors wanted to have more detailed discussion. Dr. Staloch asked if it was the will of the Board for this: three directors said no, two directors said yes, one yielded to Dr. Staloch to decide. There will be no further discussion at this point.

nmogo

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval, and Director Bowman seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long

Voting against: Holmes

Motion prevailed with a 5-1 vote.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Holmes facilitated the Listening Time held at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Three individuals submitted requests and spoke in regard to:

e Board dynamics

e e-Learning Plan

e Listening Time format

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Director Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote. Meeting was adjourned at 9:22 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superiffendent and School Board

Signed:

MM Date: 23 [ao2s

, School Board Clerk, ISD 281

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Closed Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved February 3, 2025

A Closed Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools, ISD 281, was held Monday, January 21,
2025, beginning at 10:47 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center,
4148 Winnetka Avenue North, New Hope, Minnesota.

1. Call to Order and Roll Call
Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 10:47 p.m.

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand,
Kim Holmes, and Caroline Long

Directors absent: Sharon E. Brooks

2. School Board
A. Closed Session pursuant of Minnesota Statute 13D.05, Subdivision 3(a) for the

Superintendent's Mid-Year Evaluation
Keeping with District Administrative Policy 205, the proceedings were recorded.

3. Adjourn
Meeting was adjourned at 12:27 a.m., Tuesday, January 22, 2025

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Bad nhuney Date: 2/: 3402s

ReNae J. Bownf4n, School Board Clerk, ISD 281