Unlocking Bilingual
Brilliance
Navigating Biliteracy, Equity, and
Transition in Dual Language Education.

Agenda
▪ Transitioning from early total model to 85:15
▪ Oral language development strategies and a
BUF in Action
▪ Equity and inclusion in dual language programs
2

Transitioning from early total model to 85:15

In IntIn In

Lenguaje Dual en RAS: Objetivos
Dual Language in RAS: Goals
1. Align program structure, instruction, curriculum and assessment to research-based best practices
2. Improve and increase rigor for all students
3. Eliminate opportunity gap for students of color
4. Eliminate barriers to access and academic success for all students
5. Build capacity of building leadership and staff to implement DLI best practices
6. Increase family engagement and understanding of goals of DLI
6

Principios Rectores para la Educación de Lenguaje
Dual
Guiding Principles for Dual Language Education
- Review of Relevant Current Research and Best Practices
- Alignment Rubrics to Effective and Exemplary Practice
7

Robbinsdale Spanish Immersion
BUF Implementation Journey
Year 7
Year 5
Curriculum
Implement
Year 1
Year 3
writing in language
Spring staff summer allocation plan
Oracy and meeting on 3
Implementation
(English start authentic premises of of Science BUFs in K-1). Book strategies
T4B
study
2023-24
2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 2024-25
Year 6
Year 2 Year 4 Year 8
Collaboration and
BUF Framework Write language Curriculum writing professional
El dictado content in summer learning from allocation plan Implementation of
C4T4B with team
Social Studies of teachers.
BUFS
Created curriculum maps

Why did we move to this framework?
▪ Test data showed we need to make a change.
▪ Change in population pushed us to reflect on the effectiveness of our practices.
▪ Students use all the languages in their linguistic repertoire to develop biliteracy.
▪ Equity and inclusion
▪ More current research
10

C4T4B Checklist of Implementation
13

Shared Vision and Pedagogy
14

Content Allocation Plan
15

Robbinsdale Spanish Immersion
Curriculum Mapping Process
Grade Level
Curriculum Big Ideas &
Maps Assessments
Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5
Language
Learning
Storylines
Content
Plans
Allocation
Plan

What is the BUF?
▪ Integrates language, literacy and content
▪ Backwards design- Storyline, big ideas, assessments
▪ Build background knowledge and oracy, reading comprehension, writing, word study and fluency, the
Bridge
▪ Moving from concrete to abstract
▪ Intentional planning
▪ Gradual release of responsibility
Beeman & Urow (2013)
17

Storyline
▪ Rationale and description
▪ Create common understanding
▪ Breakdown the standards
▪ Paragraph 1= Content
▪ Paragraph 2= Literacy
Source: NGSS
▪ Paragraph 3= Writing
▪ Paragraph 4= Summative Assessment/
Performance Task
18
Source: Center for Teaching for Biliteracy and NGSS

Ready, set,
¡vámonos!
A First Grade BUF in Action
El zoológico
How can the features and functions of plants and animals help them survive?

El zoológico Weekly
Gradual Release
Week Activities/Strategies
Week 1- Building ● Concept Attainment I Do
Background Knowledge ● Total Physical Response
● Diagrama Visual de Conceptos
Weeks 2-4 ● Diagrama pictorico I Do
Similarities & Differences ● Interactive Read Alouds We Do
External Parts ● Small Group Instruction
We Do
Animals Help Their Babies ● Dictado
Survive ● Experiments with science notebook
We Do
● Shared writing
Week 5- Biomimicry We Do
Week 6- Performance Task ● Zoo exhibit with animal You Do creation & writing plaques

Las
Los plantas animales

Diagrama visual de conceptos
(BeGLAD)

Read Alouds and Small
Group Instruction

Phonics
CAPA Model
Lyster & Tedick (2019)

Expert Groups

The Bridge
Listening
Speaking
Reading
Poems stories about animals
Writing
Write sentences about animals and their body parts

Equity and inclusion in dual language program

How has moving from a monolingual perspective to a multilingual perspective ensured greater equity in education?
33

Bridging the World
La comunidad

Amity Intern Program

MN Teacher Exchange
Program

RSI Alumni
Parade

Transitioning from early total

model to 85:15

Cambio Demografico: RSI
Demographic Change: RS!

ETHNICITY LANGUAGE
2010 2015 2019 2010 2015 2019 2020
White 78% 68.9% 56.3% English | 98.3% | 93.8% 81.9% 83.2%
Hispanic 97% 140% 20.5% Spanish | 4 3% 5.0% 12.1% 147%

Black 74% 125% 15.4% EL 0 21 60 72
All Spanish 55 68

Spanish Spanish

NOTE sa

e Hispanic and African American population doubled e Spanish Home Language Increase 10x

50

40

Research from the Field of
Dual Language and Biliteracy

Program 1: Two-way developmental bilingual education (BE)

Program 3: Early-exit bilingual education and ESL taught through academic content
Program 4: Early-exit bilingual education and ESL taught traditionally 1
Program 5: ESL taught through academic content using current approaches -

Program 6: ESL Pullout-taught traditionally a

Average performance of native-

__ English speakers making one

year's progress in each consecutive grade.

1 3 5 7 9 11
GRADE

© Center for Teaching for Bilteracy, LLC

ROBBINSDALE

'Area Schools

Key findings:

© Portland Public Schools (PPS) students randomly assigned to dual-language immersion programs outperformed their peers on state reading tests by 13 percent of a standard deviation in grade 5 and by 22 percent of a standard deviation in grade 8.

¢ Immersion-assigned students did not show statistically significant benefits or deficits in terms of mathematics or science performance.

© There were no clear differences in the effects of duallanguage immersion by students' native language.

¢ English learners assigned to dual-language immersion were more likely than their peers to be classified as
English proficient by grade 6. This effect was mostly attributed to English learner students whose native lan-

guage matched the classroom partner language.

Teacher Challenges

Understanding and buy-in
Changing practices

Planning
Time

Family Challenges

m Understanding the shift m Cultural differences

District Challenges

m Understanding the unique needs m Materials and resources m Professional learning

C4T4B Checklist of Implementation

Overview: Biliteracy Curriculum Development Process

w+
steps

Components

Notes

Group Dynami

step of the process.

Before beginning the process, define roles and responsibilities and assign roles. Roles will change at

All team members are ex

ted to play an active role throughout the whole process.

and First Draft of

Biliteracy
Curriculum

Map

LA Vision
Program
Design Literacy Pedagogy

Language and Content Allocation Plan

Review the instructional shifts of the standards

Draw the Language and Content Allocation on the Butche
Paper.

Bundle

e content area standards.

Begin to write year-long and unit storylin:
content focus.

starting with the

Select the writing standards and the writing genre

ict the reading standards

Revi

the storylines by addinj storylines.

the literacy portion to t

© Evaluate the content standards bundles in the

irriculum map.
© Engage in the Record, Reflect and Revise process, analyzing the first draft of the map, f and balance of the language arts standards.
© Revise storyline and bundles as needed.

using on rigor

Typically "tight": Created for all grade levels in the school or district and followed by all teachers of that

grade level

Create the BUF Triangle for every unit

© Standards
© Big ideas
© Learning and Language Outcomes - Rigor
© Formative and Summative Assessments

Revise storylines as the elements above are created

Typically "tight": Created for all grade levels in the school or district and followed by all teachers of that grade level

L_Unit

Learning Plan

© Materials
© Add Foundational Skills (K-5), Listening and Speaking and Language standards

Develop Instructional Activities for:
Oracy

Content

Reading

Writing

Word Study

Bridge: Transfer and Contrastive Analysis

Typically "loose": Each teacher creates her/his/their weekly and daily plan, with support from PLC and coaches.

© Center for Teaching for Biliteracy

Shared Vision and Pedagogy

Robbinsdale Area Schools Dual Language Immersion
Biliteracy Pedagogy

At Robbinsdale Spanish Immersion School, we believe:

students have the undeniable right to develop high levels of biliterac:
Biliteracy is a catalyst for academic achievement and future success. We value the three program goals of dual language programming; biliteracy & bilingualism, high academic achievement, and sociocultural competence

The goal of biliteracy instruction is to ensure all students read and write in both program languages daily using a variety of complex texts including informational and narrative to develop critical thinking and communication skills in all content areas

Students learn to read and write through an integrated standards based biliteracy approach grounded in student-centered instruction that is engaging and rigorous, while carefully scaffolded and differentiated to meet the various needs of all student

A biliteracy approach includes mastery of foundational literacy skills informed by the orthographic structure of each program language. Foundational skills must be taught in balance with reading comprehension and writing skills connected to meaningful content.

Language development is consistently supported through purposeful and systematic oracy instr

that enables students to use language skills

Content literacy is organized into interdisciplinary units in order to meet and grow the linguistic repertoires of our students. Students will have access to an abundance of rich, diverse, and culturally relevant literary and informational texts at both independent and instructional levels in order to enrich their academic experience. These units promote critical thinking, inquiry, and global competency.
Componi of biliteracy instruction include whole and small group instruction, mini-lessons, interactive opportunities enhanced by blended learning, oracy strategies, background knowledge, and explicit metalinguistic strategies such as contrastive analysis

The learning outcomes of biliteracy and bilingualism are developed through a balanced and structured literacy model that occurs daily in both Spanish and English. In this context, we recognize the need to elevate the Spanish language as a means to expand our students' cultural and global competency.

The transfer of academic content (literacy and content) from one language to the other occurs through

Content Allocation Plan

SPANISH

BRIDGE

ENGLISH

Spanish Language Arts
Social Studies / Science
Math

h+ English
Social Studies

English Language
Development (ELD)

Spanish Language Arts
Social Studies / Science
Math

English Language
Development (ELD)

Spanish Language Arts
Social Studies
Math

English Language Arts
Science

Spanish Language Arts
Science
Math

English Language Arts
Social Studies

Spanish Language Arts
Social Studies
Math

Math

English + Spanish
Social Studies

English Language Arts
Science

Spanish Language Arts
Science

English Language Arts
Social Studies
Math

10/2 - Crafting
Depth of
Knowledge

(DOK) level Qs,
Paraphrasing,
L1 Retells

Color coding and

x y 4 shape coding
B (categories -

connections)

Visuals and Fi sketches g >

"Cite your source!"

'Prove it" ASL, hand

Howie a gestures, TPR,

bane "Do it with me."

"Show me."
Co-construct,

"Say it with me." Co-create, 8}

"Read it with me." Neurological t R ie
Imprinting, ana f ¥

Highlighting

~. nN = www begladtraining com
BE@)GLAD, EN