To: School Board and Superintendent Staloch
From: Policy Committee
Date: August 4, 2025
Re: Policy Committee Report
The Policy Committee convened on July 8th to continue its work on reviewing and advancing policies. The committee remains committed to ensuring that policies are updated.
As part of this process, the Cabinet is actively reviewing and providing input and engaging other relevant stakeholders as appropriate.
We appreciate the dedication of all involved in this critical work and will continue to provide updates as policies progress through review and approval.
POLICY FOR SECOND READ
Policy Number Leg.
Policy Change Description of Change and Title Change
533 Policy - Wellness Bringing back for second All buildings have a 25-40
read minute lunch block per discussion with Principals
POLICIES FOR FIRST READ
Policy Number Leg.
Policy Change Description of Change and Title Change
102.1 Policy - Equity Updated Updated mission and added language: home, identity, caregivers
501 Policy - School Y Added verbiage Active shooter incidents
Weapons added
534 Policy - Unpaid Y Added verbiage Changed from
Meal Charges (School administrative procedure to
Meals) a policy. All students may purchase a second a la carte item if money has been deposited into their account
LEGISLATIVE UPDATES
Policy Number Leg.
Policy Change Description of Change and Title Change

606.6 AP - Library Y Statutory Reference change ● Under III Definitions
Materials letter A. Statutory change
613 Policy - Y Statutory Reference change ● Section V. letter B
Graduation Statutory Update
Requirements ● Section V1 B. Added capital E on
Equivalencies
620.1AP Policy - Credit Y Statutory Reference change ● Under IV. Transfer of for Learning Credits From Other
Schools added 3.
● Under section V. letter D
added academic term
624.1 AP Online Y Statutory change / added ● Section III Definitions,
Instruction (Online verbiage under letter C. statutory
Learning Options) change
● Letter J: added a state operated school