ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved XXXX

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, December 16, 2024, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, and Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Absent: John
Vento. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
Chair Bowman asked for a motion to approve the Business Meeting agenda.

MOTION: Director Holmes moved to accept the Business Meeting agenda, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Rdale Proud - Showcase: Armstrong High School - NASA High School Students United with NASA to Create
Hardware (HUNCH) Program

Erick Norby, Principal

Luke Becker, Teacher

Students: Cameron Auger-Pirri, Sylvia Digre, Sahara Edwards, Logan Kanter, Alexis Molitor, Ben Nack

A presentation was provided regarding the NASA HUNCH program at Armstrong. It started three years ago, and has just been named one of four high school Centers of Excellence in the country. The program is fundamentally about empowering young minds to innovate, create and make an impact in space by working to develop prototypes and present their products to NASA scientists and engineers. Armstrong has five finalist projects that will be presented at the national event in Texas at the end of January.

District 281 Youth Council

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities

Dr. Anne Beaton, Armstrong Advanced Placement (AP) Seminar Teacher and BARR Coordinator

Nicole Plagge, Youth Development and Enrichment Coordinator

Members of the District 281 Youth Council

The District 281 Youth Council is composed of 16 students from Armstrong and Cooper - 2 from each city our district serves, as well as 2 from Minneapolis. The group presented an update regarding their focus and work for the
2024-2025 school year: student and teacher engagement, relationships and community. Afterwards they received questions and comments from the Board.

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique

potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates

career, articulated trades and college ready. She provided an update on activities, which included:

e December 10, 2024 - Student Safety Summit at Plymouth Community Center with secondary students, staff, emergency responders and police department partners in an effort to focus on school safety protocols, emergency preparedness and student well-being (Student Engagement and Wellness)

e December 10, 2024 - Winter Band Concert featuring RMS and FAIR Crystal 8th grade bands, along with the following bands from Cooper: Freshman Band, Concert Band, Wind Ensembles - afterwards the Jazz band played in the foyer (they also performed at Lunds & Byerly's December 13 and 18) (Student Engagement and
Wellness)

e December 11, 2024 - Willie Jett, Minnesota Department of Education (MDE) Commissioner, visited Sonnesyn
Elementary as they highlighted literacy initiatives, the importance of literacy in student success, and showcased their commitment to fostering a love for reading (Student Achievement)

e December 11, 2024 - NASA HUNCH Center of Excellence recognition at Armstrong High School - as noted in their Rdale Proud presentation (Student Achievement)

e December 12, 2024 - RSI welcomed Rep. Juana Barrado Esteban (Spain's Education Ministry) and Mai Yang from the MDE - MDE's Visiting Teacher Exchange connects RSI with three exchange teachers from Spain to enrich bilingual education, cultural exchange and teaching strategies in our classrooms (Staff Investment and
Impact)

e December 12, 2024 - "Art is Primary" exhibit opened with a reception - welcoming families and community members to celebrate the works of our elementary students (Student Achievement)

e December 14, 2024 - Crosstown rivalry game at Armstrong vs. Cooper bringing the Falcon and Hawk fans together (Student Engagement and Wellness)

e December 15, 2024 - RSI experienced an early morning water pipe break - West Metro Fire and Rescue responded, our district facilities team worked to address the damage and prepare for school on Monday morning, and RSI PTO volunteers cleaned soaked items from the Lost and Found (Collaboration and Partnerships)

e Between September-December - STEM Exploration for all district 5th graders via the Vikings Voyage Field Trip program hosted by the Vikings Foundation at US Bank Stadium (Academic Achievement)

e Congratulations to Kimberly Keaton, FAIR School Crystal music teacher, for being recognized by the Minnesota
Music Educators Association (MMEA) as Middle School Music Educator of the Year. Ms. Keaton will be celebrated for her outstanding commitment to music education and student success at a ceremony on February
13 from 1:00-2:00 p.m. at the Minneapolis Convention Center

e Congratulations to John Vento, outgoing School Board Director, earned the 2024-2025 President's Award from the Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA), which recognizes those who have completed 300 or more hours of MSBA-sponsored meetings/activities. Thank you to Director Vento for 12 years of service on the Board -
with leadership roles including Board Chair (two years) Vice Chair (two years), Treasurer (4 years), and advocating for student success, equity, and fiscal responsibility.

e Congratulations to Sharon E. Brooks, School Board Director, who earned the 2024-2025 Directors Award from
MSBA for those who have earned 100 or more hours of MSBA-sponsored meetings/activities to improve individual performance.

Upcoming events include:

e December 18, 2024-January 12, 2025 - Rdale Vision 2035 Team Application Process - team will develop long-term recommendations for district priorities and resource allocations. The team will need diverse representation, and applications are open to students, staff, families, and community members - meeting monthly between January-August, presenting final recommendations to the Board in September

e January 6-26, 2025 - Reimagine Rdale Community Input Survey online to gather insights from residents, staff, students and families about district priorities and concerns to help shape recommendations for budget adjustments and strategic planning

e January 23, 2025 - $20 Million Budget Reduction Town Hall Meeting at Armstrong from 6:30-8:00 p.m.

e January-February 2025 - Staff and student engagement meetings in every building. March-April 2025 -
Community meetings and pop-up events. All of these to encourage robust community engagement fostering open communication and to collect diverse perspectives in strategic planning, vision alignment and budget priorities

Staff Charitable Giving Campaign

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities

Mr. Williams provided a summary regarding the annual Staff Charitable Giving Campaign, in which $13,628.00 was raised for the Seven Dreams Foundation and $6,831.00 was raised for Twin Cities United Way for a total of
$20,459.00. Mr. Williams thanked the site chairs districtwide for their work encouraging staff participation.

Strategic Plan Priority Work - Theme D: Staff Investment and Impact, Objective 3: Increase consistency and accountability for common district practices
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Ms. Hoheisel reported to the Board and community regarding Strategic Plan Theme D: Staff Investment and Impact,
Objective 3: Increase consistency and accountability for common district practices. Her team is working to:
e Discuss Priority Work as it relates to the Strategic Plan including the following:
o Standardize common operating procedures, practices, expectations, and norms o Standardize the forms used for common procedures and practices o Implement the use of consistent forms and practices districtwide e Showcase the work being performed e Identify plans, timelines, and next steps moving forward in district processes
Deliverables for the 2024-2025 school year:
e Standardized process for the distribution and management of building keys e Standardize Annual Staff Check-out/Exit Checklist
This was the first of nine presentations that will come to the Board showing the progression of the district Strategic
Plan Priority Work.

Operations

A.

Action: 2024 Transportation Request for Proposal (RFP) Results and Recommendation
Student Transportation Services Agreement
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval and waived reading, and Director Brooks seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, and
Evans-Becker. And the following voted against the same: Directors Holmes and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Transportation Terminal Lease Agreement
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval and waived reading, and Director Brooks seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, and
Evans-Becker. And the following voted against the same: Directors Holmes and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Vehicle Lease Agreement
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval and waived reading, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, and Evans-Becker. And the following voted against the same: Directors Holmes and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Action: Levy Certification for Taxes Payable in 2025
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Action: Approval of 2025 Legislative Platform
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval, and Director Brooks seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Action: Resolution for Acceptance of November 2024 Donations
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval of donations in total of $55,885.09, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Second Read (Action) - 200 Series of Policies: 203 Policy - Governance, 203.1 Policy - Conducting Board
Business and Meetings, 209 Policy - Code of Ethics
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval and waived reading, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Director Brooks abstained from voting. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Action: Resolution for Consideration of Censure and Disavowal of Board Member's Conduct
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval with reading the resolution into the record, and Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: Director Bassett. Director Brooks had to abstain per legal counsel, due to being the subject of the resolution. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
No update this evening.
Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee Report
Update was addressed in Operations Item A.
Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Report
Chair Bowman noted that the final draft of the Governance Policy and Procedure Manual waiting be be finalized and brought to the Board for approval.
Policy Committee Report
The following 200 series policies will be reviewed at the Work Session tonight:
e 206 Policy - Public Comment and Public Hearings e 208 Policy - Policy Development, Adoption, Implementation and Review e 214 Policy - Board Professional Development and Out-of-State Travel
The next Policy Committee Meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, January 15, 2025 from 6:00-7:00 p.m. in room
207 at ESC.
Administrative Updates e Human Resources: Ground Up Coalition - Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Ms. O'Hern provided an update on the Ground Up Coalition tier three licensed teacher apprenticeship program. This program provides full tuition in conjunction with Bemidji State, training mentor teachers and

providing wrap-around services. Six meetings will occur to develop a plan for the summer of 2025. The first cohort will be for licensed elementary school teachers.

e Framing thoughts around Enrollment - Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Ms. Hoheisel discussed the adjustments to open and in-district enrollment, which opens October 1 for the following school year. Going forward the following will be the timeline:
> After the school year begins, first semester changes will close after September 20
> Second semester changes will open at winter break, then close when second semester begins
Neither of these will impact Robbinsdale Academy-Highview, or Robbinsdale Virtual Academy.
These changes will bring consistency in the classroom, help us to prepare to serve with less disruption for students both internal and external, and help create classroom connections.
The magnet school lottery will continue to open December 1, and run through February with the lottery occurring in March.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Holmes facilitated the Listening Time held at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Six individuals submitted requests and spoke in regard to:

e Request to table consideration of the resolution regarding Director Brooks

Inequity (two individuals)

Addressing the challenge of better supporting students of color

College Bound Hennepin - college savings accounts

Strategies to bring better relationships in our schools

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at 10:02 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
Y
sone 0 Doe CPP Date: Sant, 2025

School Board Clefk, ISB'28