Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Policy 206
Adopted:
206 POLICY - PUBLIC COMMENT AND PUBLIC HEARINGS
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this Policy is to achieve several important Board objectives: a. welcome input
1
from members of the school community and the public about issues that fall within the Board's authority; b. inform members of the community who are interested in providing comments at
2
Board meetings or public hearings, with the requirements for doing so; c. provide examples of allowable and prohibited conduct during meetings; and d. protect the rights of individuals under the law.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
Community members may provide input to the Board through letters and emails at any time.
The Board also may provide opportunities for the community to directly address the Board at meetings, subject to the restrictions related to time, place, and manner it has adopted.
The community may provide public comments at meetings when the meeting notice and/or the agenda includes an "Opportunity to Address the Board." In addition, the Board may schedule a special work session, listening session, or a public hearing for the purpose of hearing from the community on a particular issue. Public comments must be related to issues within the Board's authority, or they will be ruled "out of order."
III. PUBLIC COMMENT REQUIREMENTS
A. Written Requests
Individuals interested in speaking during a public comment period must submit a
3
written request no later than 1:00 p.m. on the day of the Board meeting. The written request must include:
1. The individual's name and address;
DRAFT
2. Whether they are the parent/guardian/primary caretaker for a student attending school in the School District (specifying the nature of their relationship to the student is not required);
3. Whether they are employed by the School District; and
1
Collectively referred to as the "community."
2
Collectively referred to as "meetings."
3
Individuals who are unable to submit a request in writing may contact the Superintendent's Office for assistance.
1

4. What agenda item or issue the individual would like to address in their comments.
B. Recognition by the Board Chair
The Board Chair or designee will call speakers to the microphone, and will recognize only one speaker at a time. Individuals must be recognized in order to speak during the public comment period, and must address their comments to the Board as a whole. Any person who speaks when they have not been recognized will be ruled out of order.
C. Time Limits
1. The Board will specify the time allotted for a public comment period, and the time limit for speaking. Any individual who does not have the opportunity to speak is encouraged to submit written comments to the Board.
2. The Board reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to adjust time limits, require that members of a group designate a single spokesperson for the group, and/or impose such other limitations and restrictions necessary to provide an orderly, efficient, and fair opportunity for members of the community to directly address the Board.
3. If the number of written requests to speak exceeds the time allotted for public comments, the Board Chair or designee will recognize speakers in the following order until the public comment period ends: a. first, individuals who have a student attending school in, or reside in, the School District, or are employed by it; b. second, individuals who would like to address a specific item on that meeting's agenda; c. third, those who have not yet had the opportunity to speak (the order in which they are recognized to be determined in a random manner).
IV. PROHIBITED CONDUCT AND CONSEQUENCES FOR ENGAGING IN IT
A. Prohibited Conduct.
The following conduct is prohibited during public Board meetings, including during a public comment period:
1. Violating Board policies, or state or federal laws or regulations.
DRAFT
2. Disclosing or discussing the private educational data on any current or former student. The only exception is for a speaker, such as a parent or guardian of a current or former student, who has the legal right to disclose private educational data related to their own student.
3. Making threatening, obscene, or lewd comments or gestures, or inciting violence or instilling fear.
2

4. Violating Board policies, or state or federal laws or regulations.
5. Campaigning for or against a political candidate.
6. Interfering with, or otherwise impeding, the Board's ability to conduct its business by, for example:
a. speaking when one has not been recognized; b. interrupting or otherwise preventing a speaker who has been recognized from speaking; c. engaging in physical violence, inciting violence, or instilling fear; d. cheering, booing, clapping, hissing, or vocalizing approval or disapproval of a speaker or what they are saying; e. addressing the audience instead of the Board; and/or f. attempting to engage individual Board members in a discussion.
B. Consequences for Prohibited Conduct
Members of the community who engage in prohibited conduct will be ruled out of order by the Board Chair or designee, and may face additional consequences. For example:
1. The Board Chair or designee may:
a. Not recognize an individual or allow them to continue speaking; b. Direct the person(s) to leave School District property and not return; c. Call a recess and order that the meeting room be cleared; and/or d. Contact law enforcement.
2. Any Board member may make a motion to end the comment period.
3. The Board may vote to suspend public comments at meetings and require that all public comments be submitted in writing.
C. Response to Public Comments
In general, the Board will not respond to comments made during the public comment period. This does not mean that the Board does not value the information and input provided by the community. The Board takes public comments under advisement and, if it determines that a response is necessary, the response will be provided by the Board
DRAFT
Chair or designee on behalf of the entire Board.
The following references include some of the laws, regulations, and/or policies which are related to the topics contained in this Policy. This is not an exhaustive list and is provided for information purposes only.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 123A.15 (Establishing Education Districts)
Minn. Stat. § 123A.30 (Agreements for Secondary Education)
3

Minn. Stat. § 123B.51 (School Closings)
Minn. Stat. Ch. 13 (Minnesota Government Data Practices Act)
Minn. Stat. § 13.43 (Personnel Data)
Minn. Stat. § 13.601, Subd. 3 (Applicants for Appointment)
Minn. Stat. § 13D.05 (Meetings Having Data Classified as Public)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.47, Subd. 5 (Exclusion and Expulsion Procedures; Closed or Open
Meeting)
Minn. Stat. § 122A.33, Subd. 3 (License and Degree Exemption for Head Coach; Notice of Nonrenewal; Opportunity to Respond)
Minn. Stat. § 122A.40, Subd. 14 (Employment; Contracts; Termination; Hearing
Procedures)
Minn. Stat. § 122A.44 (Contracting with Teachers; Substitute Teachers)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.02, Subd. 14 (General Powers of Independent School Districts;
Employees; Contracts for Services)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.143, Subd. 2 (Superintendents; Disclose Past Buyouts or Contract is
Void)
Minn. Stat. Ch. 363A (Minnesota Human Rights Act)
Minn. Stat. Ch. 260E (Reporting of Maltreatment of Minors)
20 U.S.C. § 1232g (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act)
Minn. Op. Atty. Gen. 852 (July 14, 2006)
Cross References: None
DRAFT
4