RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE PAYMENT OF SPECIFIC STATEMENTS IN
ADVANCE OF BOARD APPROVAL

waived. readin
Alrector Bowmanintroduced the following resolution, and move its "Band

BE IT RESOLVED by the School Board of Independent School District No. 281, Robbinsdale,
Minnesota, as follows:

It is recommended that and consistent with Minnesota Statute 123B.11, 123B.02
and 471.38, the Chief Financial Officer be hereby vested with the authority and responsibility to make the following payment in advance of board approval for the
2025-26 school year.

Payment or expense claims against the school district for:

Utility bills

Contracted transportation invoices

Registration and travel expenses

Employee group insurance payments

Employee retirement plan payments

Payments necessary to be eligible for discount privileges
Postage meter and bulk mailing payments

Officials, referees and judges fees

Special program speakers fees, consulting fees and contracted personnel service fees
10. Tuition payments for resident students

11. Payments necessary to meet the 35-day statute

CP REIDAAWN =

The Chief Financial Officer is hereby vested with the authority and responsibility to initiate electronic fund transfers including payment of interest, payroll bank account transfers, state and federal tax withholding, state sales tax, electronic fund transfer payments covering investments, bond principal and interest, tax anticipation certificate principal and interest, loan principal and interest fiscal agent service charges.

1. The disbursing bank shall keep on file a certified copy of this authorization which allows electronic fund transfers.
2. The initiator of the electronic transfer shall be identified for each transaction.
3. The initiator shall document the request and obtain approval from the Chief Financial
Officer.
4. A written confirmation of the transaction shall be made no later than one business day after the transaction and shall be used to support the transaction.
Divecror
Motion was seconded by Ri envranal_, and upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof:
Divectors: Bassetl, Bowman , Evans: Becker, Hillenbrand,
Holmes , 'Long , Witton

And the following voted against the same: Won@&

Whereupon said resolution was declared tube, adopted,

hair

oO" Me2025 Opts

Date