District 281 Youth
Council Update
December 16, 2024
Dr. Anne Beaton
Nicole Plagge

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the
Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.

Purpose
The purpose of this presentation is to introduce the 281
Youth Council, and to share their 24-25 research topics with the Board of Education.

281 Youth Council Mission Statement
To work on behalf of the District 281
student body to improve the overall experience for every student by incorporating youth voices into the decision making process.

Members
Members of the 281YC are change agents in their building and across the district, leading the way with youth-centered systems change.
● Dinesara Jayawardena (11)
● Kareema Mohamed(11)
● Bauer Melchert (11)
● Shadia Abdihakim(11)
● Addy Anderson (10)
● Jasira williams(10)
● Kyllander Nelson (10)
● Anna Paavola (11)

Rediscover Rdale
We looked at the District
Strategic Plan
We read about the themes and picked the themes that resonated with us most:
● Student Engagement &
Wellness
● Staff Investment & Impact

Students Lived Experiences
High School
Elementary School Middle School
● Students don't find value
● Mostly positive ● Mostly negative in their work experience experience
● Lots of students "just
● Group activities and ● Shift want to go home"
games ● Kids changed
● It's hard to break the
● Friendly with ● Less group-oriented deafening silence teachers ● Distance learning
● Students felt more
● People knew me ● Disengaged connected after joining a sport/activity

We Wondered
Why is there such a drastic change from elementary to middle school?
Why isn't there a bigger emphasis on mental health in middle school?
What contributes to the lack of relationships and community in middle school?
Why do kids seem to only find connections through sports in high school?
To what extent does lack of teacher engagement impact the school community and students?

We Read
Sense of Belonging is essential to realize self-actualization - Maslow
"Humans are social animals. Connection and interaction both widen and deepen what we can achieve, and make possible our individual character." infed.org
48% of students were "doing school," but fewer were fully engaged. (Pope & Miles,
2022)
Primary connection to school for many is homework. Level of contact appears greatly lacking. - AFT
High achieving students are just as at risk of failing academically as others. -
Children's Health Council

Our Focus:
● Student and teacher engagement
● Relationships
● Community

What's Next?
● January: Examine District
Data
● February - April: Design and
Implement Study
● May: Present to the School
Board

Questions?

Robbinsdale Area Schools

Questions?

TN