Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Jan. 21, 2025

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

CHS DECA Team Excels
Overview: On Jan. 12, eight Cooper High School students competed at the DECA Districts competition.
Achievements: Five students qualified for the
State competition, with some excelling in multiple events!
State Qualifiers: Melat Kiflu (qualified in two events), Mario Martines-Morales, Catalina
Montejo (qualified in two events), Pearl Swift, Vision Wonken. Additional
Competitors: Lynette Jaimes, Ashley Romero Robles, Maria Valenzuela Salazar.

GaGa Ball For All Schools
Overview: Thanks to a $210,000 grant from
Hennepin County, GaGa Ball pits will be installed at all Rdale schools, ensuring equitable access to this inclusive and engaging game.
Impacts:
● Promotes inclusivity, teamwork, and physical activity
● Available for students of all ages and abilities
● Enhances community engagement with access beyond the school day

AHS Quiz Bowl Team Shines
Overview: The Armstrong Quiz Bowl Team has made a remarkable return this year after an
8-year hiatus, already showing incredible success in competitions.
Achievements: The team competed in their second tournament last Thursday and went
4-0. Evie Johnson earned 3rd place in individual scoring out of 97 students.
Team Members: Yonathan Getachew, Rose
Freiberg, Evie Johnson, and Ava Holton.

Kindergarten Info Fair Success
Event: The Kindergarten Information Fair on Jan. 11 showcased Rdale's kindergarten programming and Early Childhood offerings.
Highlights: Over 100 families (about 350
attendees) explored our programs in an energetic and welcoming atmosphere.
Impact: A heartfelt thank you to our kindergarten-age children, families, and staff for their enthusiasm and contributions to this special day!

Kindergarten Info Fair Success

Thank you

a

=" Kindergarten Info Fair Success

a

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools

Thank you