To: Members of the School Board
From: Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Kristen Hohesiel, Chief Financial Officer
Date: December 16, 2024
Re: Tentative Agreement - Custodial Services
District Administration is recommending the approval of a two-year School Service
Employees Local 284 contract; effective dates of contract are July 1, 2024 through June 30,
2026. The following items have been negotiated and the contract has been ratified.
Financial Package:
● The two-year agreement calls for a salary schedule increase of 3% 2024-2025 and 4%
2025-2026.
● The two-year agreement calls for an increase into the employees cafeteria plan of $100
year one and $100 dollars year two.
● Longevity pay increase:
○ Years 5-9 +$69.75
○ Years 10-14 +$62.50
○ Years 15-19 +$106.25
○ Years 20-24 +$100
○ Years 25+ +$100
● Increase Stipends:
○ Specialist Class +$0.30/hour nd
○ Specialist 2 Class +$0.40/hour st
○ 1 class Boiler License +$0.50/hour
○ Chief Boiler License +$0.60/hour
● Building and boiler check will receive a $85.00 stipend
Additional Highlights:
District Contribution
Employees with an HSA qualified Insurance plan will be allowed to direct VEBA
contributions All eligible employees may contribute from their pay, pre-tax dollars to an annuity program as provided in MS. 356.24. This option is available immediately with the appropriate paperwork submitted to human resources.
For full-time employees hired after June 30, 2009, the district will provide up to $600 in a deferred compensation match with three-years of full-time service or the equivalent.
The deferred compensation match will be paid twice monthly at the rate of $25.00.
Employees hired before June 30, 2009 and choosing the deferred compensation match

must waive their right to severance as described in Article XI, 11-1, (and will receive the above stated contribution). 9-3-3 Roth 403(b)
Effective January 1, 2011 and subject to federal law within the 403(b) plan, in addition to pre-tax Roth 403(b) contributions, employees shall be allowed the option of making after-tax Roth 403(b) contributions through approved vendors accepting such contributions. However, any employer contributions shall be made on a non-Roth pre-tax
403(b) basis. It is the employee's responsibility to submit a request for the district contribution to begin, by completing the Payroll Reduction Form and submitting it to the benefits department upon completion of three (3) years of full-time service or the equivalent.
Request for Payroll Deduction, Authorization and Remittance
Employees have the right to request and be allowed payroll deduction for the Union and for the Union's political action committee. The District will commence deductions within thirty days of receiving notice from the Union of the authorized deduction(s). The District will remit deductions to the Union within thirty days of the deduction.
The notice will include certification from the Union that the Union has and will maintain a signed authorization from the employee for whom deductions will be made. A valid signed authorization includes, but is not limited to, an electronically signed authorization.
The District may require a copy of the signed authorization form only if a dispute arises about the existence or terms of the authorization. The dues deduction authorization remains in effect until the District receives notice from the Union that an employee has changed or cancelled their authorization in writing in accordance with the terms of the original authorizing document.
The Union will indemnify the District for any successful claims made by an employee for unauthorized deductions made in reliance upon certification or information received from the Union.
New Employee Information
Within ten (10) calendar days from the date of hire of an employee, the District will provide the following contact information to the Union: name, job title, worksite location
(including location within a facility when appropriate), home address, work telephone number, home and personal cell phone numbers on file with the District, date of hire, work email address, personal email address on file with the District, wage, number of hours normally scheduled in a day, number of duty days contracted for, and whether the position is a nine (9) month or twelve (12) month assignment. The District will provide this information to the Union in a format acceptable to the Union.
On request and every 120 calendar days the District shall provide to the Union in an Excel file or similar format agreed to by the Union the following information for all bargaining unit employees: name; job title; worksite location, including location within a facility when appropriate; home address; work telephone number; home and personal cell phone

numbers on file with the District; date of hire; and work email address and personal email address on file with the District.
The District must notify an exclusive representative within ten (10) calendar days of the separation of employment or transfer out of the bargaining unit of a bargaining unit employee.
Union Orientation
The School District will provide the Union steward with the name and work location of each new employee when that employee begins work with the school district. The School
District will also provide the union steward's name and work location to each new employee.
The District will allow a Union designated representative to meet in person with newly hired employees for thirty minutes within thirty calendar days from the date of hire, during new employee orientations or (if the District does not conduct new employee orientations) at individual or group meetings. All employees participating in these meetings will be in pay status. The District will provide at least ten days notice in advance of an orientation. Meetings may be held virtually or for longer than 30 minutes only by mutual agreement of the District and the Union.
Union Access
The District will allow the Union to communicate with bargaining unit members using their employer-issued email addresses regarding collective bargaining, the administration of the collective bargaining agreement, the investigation of grievances, other workplace-related complaints and issues, and internal matters involving the governance or business of the Union, consistent with the District's generally applicable technology use policies.
The District will allow the Union to meet with bargaining unit members in District facilities regarding collective bargaining, the administration of the collective bargaining agreement, grievances and other workplace-related complaints and issues, and internal matters involving the governance or business of the Union, provided such use does not interfere with the District's business operations.
Sick Leave
Pursuant to MN Statute 181.9413, employees may use accumulated sick leave benefits for absences due to safety leave for the employee's child, adult child, spouse, sibling, parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchild, grandparent, or stepparent for reasonable periods of time as the employee's attendance may be necessary and on the same terms upon which the employee is able to use sick leave benefits for the employee's own illness or injury.
A. Safety Leave: assistance to the employee or assistance to the relatives of an employee for the purpose of providing or receiving assistance because of sexual assault, domestic abuse, or stalking. (MN Statute 181.9413).

B. The District may limit the use of safety leave benefits provided by the District for absences due to a safety leave for relatives as outlined above, to no less than one-hundred sixty (160) hours in any twelve (12) month period. This does not apply to the illness or injury of a child, as defined by MN Statute 181.940, subdivision 4.
Doctor's Certification
A service employee who has any pattern of absence may be required to submit a doctor's certificate of illness prior to returning to work. A service employee may also be required to submit a physician's certification of illness for absences of more than 3 consecutive days prior to returning to work.