Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Feb. 18, 2025

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Black History Month Event
Overview: Rdale's Black History Month celebration on Feb. 13 was a powerful event, bringing together students, families, and the community. The evening was filled with high energy, meaningful reflections, and inspiring performances.
● 150 attended the event at
Robbinsdale Middle School
● Provided students with an opportunity to showcase their learning and talents

Reading at FAIR Pilgrim
Overview: Last week I had the chance to visit
Fair Pilgrim Lane and read the book "What Do
You Do With an Idea?" to a class of third grade students.
We talked about thinking differently, having grand ideas, and having the confidence to pursue new ideas.

CHS AVID Sophomores Honored
Overview: Two Cooper AVID sophomores were recognized at the BestPrep Education Forum for their exceptional work in the BestPrep Student
Spotlight Competition.
● Challenge: Students explored the pros and cons of generative AI through various creative formats
● Competition: Over 180 submissions statewide, including 65 from Cooper AVID
10th graders
● Winners: Cody Morehouse and Peter
Ochieng named in the top 20

RPathways Internships
Overview: Students at Cooper chose to attend an informational presentation about internship opportunities through
RPathways. Students spoke of their interest in getting more hands on experience, exploring majors before college, and earning money.
Impact: Rdale currently has 28 students doing internships through RPathways.
High school students are gaining great practical experience to advance their future careers.

Budget Cuts and Vision 2030
We're currently undertaking two distinctly different efforts that are also intertwined:
● Budget deficit and planning: We must cut $21 million to balance the budget and stabilize district finances.
● Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030: A
long-term planning process to create a sustainable and innovative future.
● These efforts run parallel and are intertwined, but serve different purposes.

Understanding the budget deficit
Overview: We are facing a $21 million deficit due to past budget shortfalls, rising costs, and declining enrollment.
● Last year, we planned to cut about
$17.4 million in expenses.
● We only accomplished $3.2 million, leaving $14.2 million unaddressed.
● We also knew we'd need to cut an additional $5-7 million this year for long-term stability.
● That's how we get to $21 million in cuts needed now.

How We Got Here
Overview: This deficit is the result of years of educational funding challenges, not making the reductions proposed last year, and rising costs of operations..
● State Funding: General education formula allowance has not kept up with the rate of inflation for decades.
● Declining Enrollment: Fewer students mean less state funding.
● Rising Costs & Inflation: Contracts, services, and salaries have become more expensive.
● ESSER funding: one-time COVID relief dollars going away.

Moving Forward
Overview: We are making strategic cuts while also planning for a stronger future.
● Budget cuts announced this spring
● Thoughtful, strategic reductions
● Reductions of $21M will have impact
● Running parallel with Reimagine
Rdale: Vision 2030
● Commitment to long-term financial health

Vision 2030 staff meetings
Overview: Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030
engagement staff meetings are underway, providing an opportunity for staff to contribute.
● Schools visited: Forest, Noble, NHLC,
PMS, RMS
● Purpose: Inform staff on What, Why, and How of Vision 2030
● Engagement format: World
Café-style small group discussions
● Staff contribute ideas, dreams, expertise, and insights

Community Engagement Kickoff
Overview: The first Vision 2030 community engagement meeting was held Feb. 11 and was a success, bringing together nearly 100
participants for a collaborative discussion.
● Meal provided for attendees
● Language services available to ensure accessibility
● Followed the same World Café-style discussion process
● Community members shared their insights, aspirations, and feedback

Reimagine Rdale:
Community Events
Community engagement is at the heart of Reimagine Rdale. Throughout this month and March, we're hosting seven more district-wide events, including two virtual sessions. Four will focus on engaging our Indigenous, Pan African, Somali, and Latino communities. All meetings will go from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m.
● Feb. 19 - Virtual meeting (link on website)
● Feb. 24 - Sandburg Middle School (Pan African Community)
● Feb. 26 - Robbinsdale Middle School (Somali Community Engagement)
● March 10 - FAIR Crystal (Indigenous Community Engagement)
● March 19 - Robbinsdale Spanish Immersion (Latino Community Engagement)
● March 24 - Virtual meeting (link on website)
● March 26 - Meadow Lake Elementary School

Reimagine Rdale:
Vision 2030 Community Survey

Vision 2030 Team: Feb. 25
Overview: The Vision 2030
Team's next meeting will take place on Feb. 25 at Cooper High
School.
● Continued focus on reviewing district-wide data and programming
● Supports informed decision-making for Vision
2030

Thank you

a

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools

Thank you