Safety and Security
Update
Maureen Mullen - Director of Facilities and Operations
Bo Powell - Director of Safety and Security
Hayley Heidelberg - Director of Risk Management
Joel Mehring - Asst. Director of Technology
June 16, 2025

Strategic Theme B2
Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety

Presentation Outcome
The Board of Education and our community will gain an understanding of school safety and security projects currently underway that are designed to improve safety and security in
Robbinsdale Area Schools.
5

Emergency Management Model
Crisis management stages:
1. Mitigation (Prevention): Identify and address vulnerabilities that could lead to crises
2. Preparedness: Ensure staff, students and families are ready to respond when a crisis occurs
3. Response: Immediate action to stabilize the situation and protect the school community
4. Recovery: Long-term restoration and healing for the school community

Stage One - Mitigation/Prevention
Identify and address vulnerabilities
● Physical security
● Behavioral prevention
● Emergency planning

Stage Two - Preparedness
Ensure staff, students and families are ready to respond
● Crisis plans
● Training and drills
● Communication systems

Statutory Requirements
● MN State Statute 121A.035 Crisis Management
○ Development, review, annual update, and implementation of a District Crisis
Management Plan
○ Develop, review, and monitor school site emergency preparedness plans and drills
○ Develop and maintain facility diagrams and site plans including fire, shelter, egress, and utilities
○ Develop and maintain district-wide warning system including radio and PA
systems
○ Manage district's security systems including cameras, visitor management, card access, and key control
○ Coordinate efforts with local public safety agencies

Active Projects in
Mitigation/Prevention and Preparedness
● Lockdown Buttons
● Surveillance Cameras
● Key Control
● Card Access Control
● Shelter and Egress Maps
● Visitor Access Control
● Emergency Action Guides
● Public Address (PA) Systems

Surveillance Cameras
● Goal: Reliable camera access with adequate coverage and storage
○ Reconfiguring existing servers, adding additional servers
○ Upgrading camera software for
A.I. capabilities
○ Conducting camera coverage and operational audits
○ Replacing non-functioning and failing cameras

Card Access Control
● Goal: Improve card access control with encrypted cards, updated IDs and limited access levels
○ Digitally encrypted cards with larger photos and font
○ Badge color by role
○ Card permission level by position
○ Dedicated server and software update for remote management

Visitor Access Control
● Goal: Positive visual ID of visitors before building access is granted
○ Installing AiPhones at all visitor entries, receiving and loading dock doors where needed
○ Standardizing SOPs at all sites

Public Address (PA) Systems
● Goal: Ensure consistent and reliable
Image here?
operation of PA systems for clear and timely communication
○ Conducting PA systems audits
■ Replacement, repairs, reprogramming as needed
○ Standardizing SOPs at all sites

Lockdown Buttons
● Goal: Ensure that lockdown buttons have the same operational functions at all sites
○ Conducting lockdown button audits
■ Replacement, reprogramming, repairs as needed
○ Standardizing SOPs at all sites

Key Control
● Goal: All staff able to access spaces in their building for sheltering or lockdown when needed
○ Conducting keying site audits
○ Revising key distribution management practices
■ Implementing new key control hierarchy
■ Rekeying, re-coring, and new keys as needed

Emergency Shelter and Egress Maps
● Goals: All classrooms and common areas have emergency shelter and egress plans posted
○ Verifying egress routes and shelter locations
○ Updating maps as needed
○ Shelter and egress map posted with the SRP
Emergency Action Guide over the summer

SRP Emergency Action Guide

Questions?

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

SRP Emergency Action Guide

IN AN EMERGENCY

TAKE ACTION

HOLD! In your room or area. Clear the halls.
STUDENTS ADULTS

Clear the hallways and remain in room or -_ Close and lock the door area until the "All Clear" is announced Account for students and adults
Do business as usual Do business as usual

SECURE! Get inside. Lock outside doors.
STUDENTS ADULTS

Return to inside of building Bring everyone indoors

Do business as usual Lock outside doors
Increase situational awareness
Account for students and adults
Do business as usual

LOCKDOWW! Locks, lights, out of sight.

STUDENTS ADULTS
Move away from sight Recover students from hallway if possible
Maintain silence Lock the classroom door
Do not open the door Tum out the lights
Move away from sight
Maintain silence
Do not open the door
Prepare to evade or defend

EVACUATE! (A location may be specified)

STUDENTS ADULTS

Leave stuff behind if required to Lead students to Evacuation location

If possible, bring your phone Account for students and adults

Follow instructions Notify if missing, extra or injured students or adults

SHELTER! Hazard and safety strategy.

STUDENTS, ADULTS

Use appropriate safety strategy Lead safety strategy

for the hazard Account for students and adults

Hazard Safety Strategy Notify if missing, extra or injured students
Tornado Evacuate to shelter area or adults

Hazmat Seal the room

Earthquake Drop, cover and hold
Tsunami Get to high ground

The Lve Gi Fourton Conk CO. The Sart Rapores Proce and Logo ae Fasonat of The "Le es Sym cetacean neice Twn nao pati vente se ae ha SSS St Poa

Questions?