District 281 Youth
Council Update
May 2025
Dr. Anne Beaton
Nicole Plagge

Purpose
The purpose of this presentation is to re-introduce the 281
Youth Council (281YC), share our research process, and offer recommendations to the Robbinsdale School Board.

281 Youth Council Mission Statement
To work on behalf of the District 281
student body to improve the overall experience for every student by incorporating youth voices into the decision making process.

Members
Members of the 281YC are change agents in their building and across the district, leading the way with youth-centered systems change.
● Addy Anderson (10)
● Anna Paavola (12)
● Bauer Melchert (11)
● Dinesara Jayawardena (11)
● Kareema Mohamed (11)
● Kyllander Nelson (10)
● Shadia Abdihakim(11)

Our Research
October:
Rediscover Rdale & Strategic Plan
Themes: Student Engagement & Wellness and Staff Investment & Impact
November:
Student Lived Experiences
Connected in K-5; a shift in 6-8; more disconnected in 9-12
December:
We Wondered: Why a shift in student connectedness K-12?
We Read: student engagement; sense of belonging; social capital
Our Focus:
Student and teacher engagement
Relationships
Community

January: District Data
We analyzed data from the surveys and found:
● Students felt that teachers didn't meet their needs in offering help in class
● Positive responses in the survey started to decrease substantially starting in 2017

February: Observation
● Psychology of teaching - No wrong ways
● Diversely Skilled Staff - Catered to
Specific Learning Communities
● Catalyst/Specific Learning
Programs (AVID, BARR,
R-Pathways, etc.) Fostered
Community Initiatives

March: District Survey
Question 11: What is the best
● Mutual Respect and Equality way to build strong relationships
● To just "Talk" with students and between teachers and students?
communicate
● Personal Connections between
Teachers and Students

April: Examine what's working.

Priorities
● Building relationships between students and staff
● Staff identify and examine biases
● Active learning & engaging lessons
Recommendations
● Name the Youth Council priorities in the School Improvement Plans.
● Use these priorities as guidelines when choosing programs and designing professional development.
● When implementing programs & professional development, follow through fully.
● Give teachers time to rework curriculum to implement training.
● Co-plan & co-facilitate professional learning with students

Questions?

ua April: Examine what's working.

% _*BARR

The
Iearnways CATALYST

APR IGAM

Robbinsdale Area Schools

Questions?

TN