ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Business Meeting

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved October 20, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, October 6, 2025, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Welcome and Land Acknowledgement
Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair

Call to Order and Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: Holmes. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved to amend the agenda to add Action: Resignation of a Board Member as Item A.
under New Business, Wutoh seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the amended agenda, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

Rdale Proud: Sonnesyn Elementary - The Words Matter Initiative: Better Words, Better Worlds

Principal Adams, Assistant Principal Sherrod, and Ms. Betzold provided a presentation sharing information regarding this initiative, which is a schoolwide effort to teach students, staff and families the power of language and its impact on relationships, learning and community.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Wutoh seconded.

Voting for: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 5-1 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business (None)

New Business
A. Action: Resignation of a Board Member
MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker read the letter of resignation from Director Holmes into the record and moved to approve the resignation, Wutoh seconded.
Voting for: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 5-1 roll call vote.
B. Resolution for Acceptance of Donations in the amount of $8,805.00
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Resolution for Acceptance of Donations, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 roll call vote.

Policy

Director Wutoh noted the last meeting was September 17, 2025 with the following policies reviewed...
First Read Policies - to align with current MN School Boards Association model policies:

e 205 Policy - Open Meetings and Closed Meetings

301 Policy - School District Administration

302 Policy - Superintendent

303 Policy - Superintendent Selection

304 Policy - Supeirntendent Contract, Duties, and Evaluation

306 Policy - Administrator Code of Ethics

414 Policy - Mandated Reporting of Child Neglect or Physical or Sexual Abuse

eeeeee

418 Policy - Drug-Free Workplace/Drug-Free School

516 Policy - Student Medication and Telehealth

516.5 Policy - Overdose Medication

522 Policy - Titl IX Sex Nondiscrimination Policy, Grievance Procedure, and Process

802 Policy - Disposition of Obsolete Equipment and Materials

The intent is for these policies to come forward for second read/action at the Business Meeting on October 20, 2025.

Administrative Reports
A. Superintendent's Report - Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. Highlights of the presentation included:
e Academic All-American Awards from the National Speech and Debate Association for Tessa Lenoch, Senior at Cooper, and Raina Nehreen and Alison Wandmacher, Seniors at Armstrong e Cooper's student newspaper, The Quill, wond an International First Place Award from the Quill and Scroll
Society for the nine issues published during the 2024-25 school year e Armstrong and Cooper boys' soccer team parent nights e FAIR School Crystal's ribbon cutting ceremony celebrating the opening of theri new community schoolyard made possible by grants from Trust for Public Land, Hennepin County SHIP Program and the Seven Dreams
Education Foundation e Orange Shirt Day - "Every Child Matters" on September 30 - remembrance walk around Medicine Lake in solidarity, healing and hope e MN Association of School Administrators (MASA) fall conference presentation on the Dignity Index as a tool to improve school culture e Zoraba Ross, Principal of FAIR School Crystal has been honored with the Excellence in Education Award from Ohio State University's College of Education and Human Ecology, honoring alumni who have made outstanding contributions in their chosen field, exemplifying service and excellence e Outstanding Achievement in Educational Theater Award for Armstrong's Theater team for their production of
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child
B. Reimagine Rdale Vision 2030/Statutory Operating Debt (SOD) Plan Work - Dr. Teri Staloch - Superintendent, Dr.
Bob McDowell - Assistant Superintendent, and Kristen Hoheisel - Chief Financial Officer
Superintendent Staloch, Assistant Superintendent McDowell and Ms. Hoheisel provided a presentation outlining additional details in regard to SOD planning, including:
e Short term timeline of items to complete between now and the end of January e SOD Planning is due January 31, 2026 to the MN Dept. of Education and needs to show: clear financial projections, specific strategies, and a multi-year framework, monitoring and accountability e Information regarding clarity of different district funding sources e Preliminary residential survey to be executed by Morris Leatherman in October, with data to be presented to the Board November 3

Move to Closed Session

MOTION: Bowman moved to go into Closed Session to engage in attorney-client privileged discussions related to a lawsuit entitled Brooks v. Robbinsdale Area School Board pursuant to Minnesota Statutes section 13D.05, subdivision
3(b), Hillenbrand seconded.

Motion prevailed on a 6-0 voice vote.

Closed Session began at 8:15 p.m. in the Boardroom.

Board returned from Closed Session at 8:48 p.m.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, and Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 8:48 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Lo) ie and School Board
Signed: dk ed € f HAC Date: lofzef 2

ReNae J. Boy an, ool Board Clerk, ISD 281