To: Members of the School Board
From: Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Date: Date: April 20, 2026
Re: Tentative Agreement - Nutrition Services
RECOMMENDATION:
District Administration is recommending the approval of a two-year Nutrition Services contract with effective dates of July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2027. The following items have been discussed with both parties.
Financial Package
The salary increase for 2025-2026 will be 2.5%.
The salary increase for 2026-2027 will be 2.5%.
Salary increase will be retroactive back to July 1, 2025.
There will be a $50/month increase to insurance benefits starting in January 2026.
Non-Economics
The articles in red are revisions to the contract. The language that is stuck will be removed from the contract.
5-1 Emergency Closings:
When schools are closed due to inclement weather, or other unforeseen circumstances such as mechanical failure, the district will implement an "e-learning day". Early dismissal/
staggered release days allow staff to leave the building once their supervision of students has ended. Managers must report if there is a delivery.
When schools are closed due to inclement weather or other circumstances, nutrition services employees will not report for work unless otherwise notified by the Nutrition Services
Program Director. Five times per school year under such circumstances employees who are unable to report to work will be entitled to draw sick day pay to make up for the lost day's pay. For those employees who do show up for work and a snow day is called, they shall be paid a minimum of two (2) hours or actual hours worked if more than two (2) hours. A
nutrition services employee will be paid no more than the number of hours normally worked each day. The maximum number of days covered by this provision will be five days.
If schools are closed due to a catastrophic event or by the School Board for any other emergency and nutrition services employees are told not to report to work by the Nutrition
Services Program Director they will be entitled to draw sick day pay to make up for the lost days up to a maximum of 15 days.
5-2 Holidays:
Add: Thursday of MEA
Remove: Easter Monday
All floating holidays will be used during winter or spring break.

6-3 Bereavement:
Extended Travel: Any Nutrition Service Employee who travels more than 2,000 miles one way for the purpose of a bereavement will be granted up to two additional unpaid days of leave per occurrence.
6-3 Extended Leave
Allowable extended leaves of absence are defined under FMLA (Family Medical Leave Act)
and starting January 1, 2026, Minnesota Paid Family Leave, established under Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 268B. FMLA (Family Medical Leave Act) and Minnesota Paid Family Leave will run concurrently.
6-5 Personal Leave:
6-5-1 Nutrition Service employees who work 231 days will receive an additional three (3)
personal days and are not bound by the summer sick leave incentive program.
7-6 Training, Conventions and Seminars:
The district will pay the following fees or provide reimbursement for Nutrition Services employees.Any Nutrition Service employee who is required, and has received prior approval, to receive training for their position will be paid their normal rate of pay during that training.
To receive reimbursement, employees must submit their request and required documentation to the Nutrition Services Program Director. Failure to submit the completed applications or necessary paperwork to the Nutrition Services Program Director will result in the employee being solely responsible for the following fees.