Achievement and
Integration Plan
FY 27 - 29
May 4, 2026
1

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Land Acknowledgement
We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.
We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms.
We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education, and tribal sovereignty.
3

4

Achievement and Integration
(A&I)
124D.861 ACHIEVEMENT AND INTEGRATION FOR MINNESOTA.
Subdivision 1. Program to close the academic achievement and opportunity gap; revenue uses.
The purpose of the Achievement and Integration (A&I) for
Minnesota program is to pursue racial and economic integration, increase student achievement, create equitable educational opportunities, and reduce academic disparities based on students'
diverse racial, ethnic, and economic backgrounds in Minnesota public schools.
A&I Goals must address the following:
● Increase racial and economic integration
● Reduce achievement disparities
6
● Increase access to effective and diverse teachers

Comprehensive Achievement and Civic Readiness (CACR)
Legislation requires districts develop comprehensive, long-term strategic plans that address the following five
CACR goals:
● All children are ready for school.
● All racial and economic achievement gaps between students are closed.
● All students are ready for career and college.
● All students graduate from high school.
● All students are prepared to be lifelong learners.
7

Definitions of commonly used terms and why they are important for you

Definitions for A&I Plan
What does the phrase "protected class students" refer to?
When determining which districts are eligible for this program, protected class students means students who self-report as being in one of the race and ethnicity categories used by school districts and MDE to track student enrollment. These categories are African/Black Americans, Asian/Pacific Americans,
Chicano/Latino Americans, American Indian/Alaskan Native, and multi-racial.

Definitions for A&I Plan
● Racially Isolated District:
Enrollment of protected-class students is greater than 20
percent, compared to the number of protected-class students in an adjoining district
● Adjoining District:
Physically adjoin a racially isolated district.

● Racially identifiable schools within a district:
Enrollment of protected-class students at a school is greater than 20% compared to the number of protected-class students within the district at the same grade levels.

Achievement and Integration
(A&I)
Racially Identifiable Schools
Racially identifiable school means a school where the percent of protected class students in a school is more than 20 percentage points above the percent of protected class students (or students of color) in the entire district for the grades served by that school.
Racially Identifiable Schools in RAS:
● Meadow Lake Elementary School
● Northport Elementary School
12

How we spend
Achievement and
Integration dollars

Direct Student Services
At least 80 percent of the budget
● We have strategies in place that provide direct and indirect services to students.

Professional Development
Up to 20 percent of the budget
● Used for professional learning experiences, staff development strategies such as coaching and mentoring, and for placement programs.

Administrative Costs
● No more than 10 percent of the budget may be used for administrative costs

FY 27-29
Principal PD
Achievement
CNA Session 2
and
Integration
Goals

Goal 1
Goal 1 Alignment with A&I area:
Reducing achievement disparities
Goa1 1 Alignment with CACR:
All racial and economic achievement gaps between students are closed
By FY 2029, 60% of K-5 students and 52% of grades 6-8 students within the protected class will demonstrate typical or aggressive growth in literacy, as measured by fall-to-spring performance on earlyReading and aReading assessments
Strategies:
● Science of Reading Professional Development
● Wit and Wisdom Literacy Curriculum
● MTSS Structures and Supports
18

Goal 2
Goal 2 Alignment with A&I area:
Reducing achievement disparities
Goa1 2 Alignment with CACR:
All students graduate from high school
By FY 2029, RAS will increase the four-year graduation rate for students who identify as American Indian, Black/African
American, Hispanic/Latino, and with two or more races by 2%
each year.
Strategies:
● AVID Strategies
● Experiential Learning Opportunities
● School Climate and Culture Specialist, FACE
● MTSS Interventions
● Xello college and career readiness exposure
19

Goal 3
Goal 3 Alignment with A&I area:
Increase access to effective and diverse teachers
Goal 3 Alignment with CACR area:
All racial and economic achievement gaps between students are closed
The percentage of licensed staff of color working in
Robbinsdale Area Schools will increase by 1% each year from FY
2026 to FY 2029
Strategies:
● Expanding Grow Your Own Program
● Retention Strategies
● Professional Development
20

Goal 4
Goal 4 Alignment with A&I area:
Increase racial and economic integration
Goal 4 Alignment with CACR:
All students are prepared to be lifelong learners
By FY 2029, Robbinsdale Area Schools will establish and sustain a districtwide cycle of integrated academic and enrichment programming, including at least three cross-cultural opportunities annually (Fall, Winter, Spring) that engage both students and families to support student learning and strengthen connections across RIS and non-RIS sites
Strategies:
● Focus Groups
● FACE Team
● Districtwide cultural learning opportunities
21
● Restorative Practices

RIS Goal 1
Goal 1 Alignment with A&I area:
Reducing achievement disparities
Goal 1 Alignment with CACR:
All racial and economic achievement gaps between students are closed
By FY 2029, 60% of K-5 students within the protected class at
Northport and Meadow Lake Elementary will demonstrate typical or aggressive growth in literacy, as measured by fall-to-spring performance on earlyReading and aReading assessments.
22

RIS Goal 2
Goal 2 Alignment with A&I area:
Increase access to effective and diverse teachers
Goal 2 Alignment with CACR:
All racial and economic achievement gaps between students are closed
The percentage of licensed staff of color working in
Robbinsdale Area Schools will increase by 1% each year from
FY 2026 to FY 2029.
23

RIS Goal 3
Goal 3 Alignment with A&I area:
Increase racial and economic integration
Goal 3 Alignment with CACR:
All students are prepared to be lifelong learners
By FY 2029, Robbinsdale Area Schools will establish and sustain a districtwide cycle of integrated academic and enrichment programming opportunities at Northport and Meadow Lake, ensuring equitable access and increasing participation among students and families from diverse racial and cultural backgrounds by 10% each year
24

Questions,
Comments?
25