Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Approved: November 24, 2014
Reviewed and Revised: March 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
623 POLICY AP: SUMMER SCHOOL INSTRUCTION
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to establish program parameters and student attendance guidelines and requirements for the school district relating to the provision of summer school educational services.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
Summer school educational services and instruction shall be directed toward the fulfillment of the goals and objectives of the educational program and graduation standards of Robbinsdale Area
Schools.
III. DEFINITIONS
A. Robbinsdale Area Schools shall offer summer school instruction providing opportunities for:
1. Targeted services at the elementary and middle school levels;
2. Credit recovery courses at the high school level,
3. Special education Extended School Year (ESY) instruction and services related to mandatory summer school instruction consistent with applicable state and federal authority for all qualified disabled children where appropriate to their educational needs;
4. Reading intervention programs or instruction for students who are at risk of not learning to read before the end of second grade; and
5. Other summer school programs as determined by the school district.
B. All services of the summer school program will be free to residents of Robbinsdale Area
Schools whose need for a summer program has been identified by teachers, guidance counselors, or the school principal and who are advised to attend pursuant to established school district criteria and the provisions of this policy.
C. The summer school curriculum will be established in line with the needs of students and in accordance with rules of the Minnesota Department of Education. Targeted services and credit recovery courses shall provide opportunities for students to qualify for promotion and/or credit in areas and subjects where previous work has not met promotion/credit

standards. It shall further be designed to assist students who are in need of targeted services relating to the school district's graduation standards or who have been identified as at risk of not learning to read before the end of second grade.
D. Summer school provides the opportunity for students to improve basic skills, further their academic progress, and/or accelerate in designated academic areas. It is the intent of
Robbinsdale Area Schools to ensure that courses taught during the summer session are of the same level of instructional breadth and difficulty as provided during the regular school year.
IV. SUMMER SCHOOL INSTRUCTION
The administration will identify and develop specific criteria and standards for determining which students should receive summer school instruction.
V. TRANSPORTATION SERVICES
A. Robbinsdale Area Schools shall make available transportation services for all students receiving instruction in the school district's summer school program in accordance with
Minn Stat Minnesota Statutes section 120A.22 subdivision 5(b). The school district recognizes that transportation is an essential part of the school district services to students and parents but further recognizes that transportation by school bus is a privilege and not a right for an eligible student.
B. The school board shall retain sole discretion, control, and management of scheduling routes, establishment of the location of bus stops, manner and method of transportation, control and discipline of school children, and any other matter relating to the provision of transportation services.
VI. SCHOOL BOARD REVIEW
The superintendent or designated representative shall report at least annually to the school board regarding the status and utilization of programs under this policy. All summer school programs will be subject to annual review and approval by the school board.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 120A.20 (Admission to Public School)
Minn. Stat. § 120A.22 (Compulsory Instruction)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.12 (Reading Proficiently no Later than the End of Grade 3)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.02 (General Powers of Independent School Districts)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.09 (Boards of Independent School Districts)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.88 (Independent School Districts; Transportation)
Minn. Stat. § 125A.50 (Alternative Delivery of Specialized Instructional Services)
Minn. Rules Chapter 3501 (Graduation Standards)
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 603 (Curriculum Development)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 604 (Instructional Curriculum)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 605 (Alternative Programs)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 707 (Transportation of Public School Students)

RAS Policy 102.1 Equity