Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Oct. 6, 2025

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Academic All-American Awards
Three Rdale seniors, Tessa Lenoch,
Raina Nehreen, and Alison
Wandmacher have joined an elite group of student leaders nationwide as recipients of Academic
Tessa
Lenoch
All-American Awards from the
National Speech & Debate Association.
This is the tenth consecutive year at least one student from Rdale has earned this distinction.
Raina Alison
Nehreen Wandmacher

The Quill Earns National Award
Cooper's student newspaper, The
Quill, won an International First Place
Award from the Quill and Scroll
Society for the nine issues published during the 2024-25 school year.
● Included superior ratings for general practices and coverage, excellent rating for writing and editing.
● This is the sixth consecutive year
The Quill has received an award from the society.

Boys' Soccer Parents' Nights
The Armstrong and Cooper boys'
soccer teams held their senior and parents' nights recently. These games celebrated the dedication of the players and families to positively representing themselves, their teams, and their schools through a shared passion for soccer.
It was a great example of strong community engagement supporting our students.

Honoring Orange Shirt Day
On Orange Shirt Day, Sept. 30, we honored the survivors of Indian
Boarding Schools and remembered the ones who never made it home across
Rdale. Orange Shirt Day reminds us that "Every Child Matters."
The day culminated with a remembrance walk around Medicine
Lake, where students, families, staff and community members walked together in solidarity, healing and hope.

Honoring Orange Shirt Day

FAIR Crystal's New Schoolyard
On Sept. 18, FAIR School Crystal held a ribbon cutting ceremony to celebrate the opening of their new community schoolyard.
● Made possible with grants from
Trust for Public Land, Hennepin
County SHIP Program, and the
Seven Dreams Education
Foundation.
● Features outdoor learning areas, native plants, paths, and more for students, staff and the community.

Leading with Dignity and Purpose
The keynote spotlight at the
Minnesota Association of School
Administrators (MASA) fall conference was a presentation on the Dignity
Index as a tool to improve school culture.
The Dignity Index scores language on a scale from contempt to dignity, helping all people see the impact of our words.

Excellence in Education Award
Zoraba Ross, Principal of FAIR School
Crystal, has been honored with the
Excellence in Education Award from Ohio
State University's College of Education and Human Ecology.
This award recognizes Ohio State
University alumni who have made outstanding contributions in their chosen field, exemplifying service and excellence.

Outstanding Achievement Award for
Armstrong Theater
Armstrong's Theater team received a special recognition for Outstanding
Achievement in Educational Theater for their production of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child last fall from the
Minnesota Educational Theater
Association.
The production featured a cast of 34
students and a backstage crew at least twice that size.

Thank You

uz

roms Honoring Orange Shirt Day

Thank You

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools