Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Feb. 17, 2026

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Trained Emergency Medical Responders
Eighteen Rdale students, 11 from
Armstrong and seven from Cooper, have completed a semester-long course culminating in passing EMR and CPR
certifications.
Through the course, students studied anatomy, patient assessment, life-saving techniques, and managing patient care at the scene of a medical or trauma emergency until ambulance personnel arrive.

RTC Building Skills and Community
A student-run coffee shop, RTCoffee exemplifies the major goals of RTC, providing meaningful work experiences for all students and equipping them with skills to transition from school to life in the community.
Since 2019, RTCoffee has served as a way for students in the Money for Independent
Living class to experience a faux economy, working and earning paychecks, learning how to earn and budget money.

State Choral Recognition
Rdale has had 12 students selected for the
American Choral Directors Association of
Minnesota (ACDA-MN) honor choirs.
● One PMS student will perform with the Grade 4-5-6 Honor Choirs on
Saturday, March 28, at St.
Michael/Albertville High School.
● 11 AHS and CHS students performed with the Grade 9-10 Honor Choirs on
Feb. 14 at Prior Lake High School.

Mid-Year School Visits
Board members and the Superintendent have been conducting mid-year school visits across Rdale.
These visits provide time to hear about successes, discuss areas of focus, and see
School Improvement Plan work in action in classrooms.

Bridge2Read Presentation at MESPA
On Feb. 5, Northport Principal Bridget
Dooley, Noble MTSS Instructional Coach
Jessica Schultz, and K-5 Literacy Specialist
Laura Suckerman were joined by Kristin
Burger, Director of Literacy at ServeMN, to present at the MESPA Institute 2026
conference.
They shared the story of implementing
Bridge2Read in Rdale, including the process structure, data-driven results, and non-data wins happening in our schools.

Exploring the Dignity Index
Rdale board members, legislators, Senior
Leadership Team members, and students recently had the chance to participate in Dignity Index sessions.
The nonpartisan framework helps communities understand how language can either deepen division or build connection during disagreement, and offers practical tools for more respectful, productive dialogue in our schools and communities.

All Invited: Black History Celebration
Rdale will host its annual Black History
Month Celebration from 5:30-7:30 p.m. on
Friday, Feb. 20 at Robbinsdale Middle
School.
The event brings our community together to honor the past, celebrate the present, and inspire the future.

Thank you!