To: School Board and Superintendent Staloch
From: Policy Committee
Date: February 2, 2026
Re: Policy Committee Report
The Policy Committee convened on January 21, 2026 to continue its work on reviewing and advancing policies. The committee remains committed to ensuring that policies are updated.
As part of this process, the Cabinet is actively reviewing and providing input and engaging other relevant stakeholders as appropriate.
We appreciate the dedication of all involved in this critical work and will continue to provide updates as policies progress through review and approval.
Our next meeting is February 18, 2026.
POLICIES FOR FIRST READ
Policy Number
Purpose Policy Change Description of Change and Title
204- School Board Continuation of Changing from AP ● Added designee
Meeting Minutes review of 200 Series to Policy under III. A.
409 Policy- Employee Cycle Review Changing from AP ● Added Cross
Publications, to Policy Reference RAS
Instructional Materials, Policy 102.1 Equity
Inventions, and
Creations
Policy 412- Expense Cycle Review Changing from an ● No changes to the
Reimbursement AP to Policy Policy
Policy 420- Students Cycle Review Changing from an ● Under I. Prevention and Employees with AP to Policy added Minnesota
Sexual Transmitted and statue update
Infections, Changes reflect ● Updated Legal
Communicable most current MSBA References
Diseases and Policy
Infectious Conditions
Policy 421- Gifts to Cycle Review Changing from AP ● Added School
Employees and School to Policy Board Members to
Board Members Policy Title
Changes reflect ● II. General

most current MSBA Statement of Policy
Policy added letter E.
● III. Definition added letter A, B and C.
● Updated Cross
References
Policy 423- Cycle Review Changing from an ● III Reporting and
Employee-Student AP to a Policy Investigation added
Relationships verbiage in letter,
Changes reflect removed 1-4
most current MSBA ● Under B. removed
Policy 6-7 and everything following
● Updated Legal references and added RAS Policy
102,1 Equity to Cross references
Policy 427- Workload Changing from an ● Updated language limits For Certain AP to a Policy under II. Definitions
Special Education in A, B and C
Teachers Changes reflect ● Updated Cross most current MSBA References
Policy
In Progress
501 Policy - School Going to a future Added verbiage ● Active shooter
Weapons Study Session incidents added