Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
May 4, 2026

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

AHS MASSP Silver Star of Innovation Award
● Armstrong was recognized by the
Minnesota Association of Secondary
School Principals (MASSP) for the
Preparing Falcons Futures program.
● Preparing Falcons Futures is a three-year effort that has transformed the school's media center into a hub of personalized support, mentorship, and postsecondary planning.
● Created targeted areas for BARR
support, mentoring and AVID, and college and career exploration

2026 Athena Awards Celebration
● The Athena Awards luncheon was held on Friday, May 1.
● Rdale's 2026 Athena Award winners are Sarahya College from Armstrong and Folake Olusesi from Cooper
● The Athena Award is given annually by each high school to a senior student-athlete who has distinguished herself in athletics and academics.

Annual Virtual Art Show
● The Rdale K-12 Virtual Art Show is now live and features artwork from over
300 students across the district.
● Student artists created with a wide variety of media and themes from this school year

School Transition Events
To help make transitions smoother, families are invited to attend upcoming school transition events designed to support students heading into new buildings for the 2026-27 school year.
● Zachary Lane Elementary: 5:30-7 p.m.
Tuesday, May 5
● Lakeview Elementary: 5:30-7 p.m.
Wednesday, May 6
● Neill Elementary: 5:30-7 p.m. Thursday, May 7
● Sandburg Middle School: 5:30-7 p.m.
Thursday, May 7
● Plymouth Middle School: 6-7:30 p.m.
Thursday, May 7

Community Engagement Continues
● Community engagement opportunities planned throughout May
○ May 6 | Armstrong | 6:30-8 p.m.
○ May 13 | Cooper | 6:30-8 p.m.
○ Staff and student opportunities also in May
● Learn more about the district's current reality, including enrollment, finances, and facilities
● Share perspectives that will help guide future decisions

Thank you!