Summary Minutes of Special Study Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Reviewed: January 5, 2026
Monday, December 8, 2025 beginning at 7:02 p.m.
1. Welcome/Land Acknowledgement
Chair Evans-Becker welcomed everyone, and read the district land acknowledgement.
2. Introductions
Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand,
Caroline Long, Dr. Kenneth Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.
Senior Leadership Team Members present:
● Dr. Bob McDowell, Assistant Superintendent
● Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
● Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
● Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics, and Activities
3. Purpose and Agenda
Superintendent Staloch reviewed the Board's 2025-26 Agenda and Working Document noting tonight's discussion is for work highlighted Under Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational
Direction, specifically:
● Approve Statutory Operating Debt (SOD) plan, and monitoring and using enrollment trends to plan strategically for current and future facilities, staffing, and budget decisions for submission to the
Minnesota Department of Education (MDE) by January 31, 2026
● Review Phase I Vision 2030/SOD Plan additional options
4. District Governance and Policy
● School Board Officers for 2026 Discussion
The Board discussed who is interested in which officer roles to be voted on at the Organizational
Meeting on January 5, 2026.
● School Board 2026 Committee Assignments Discussion
The Board discussed who is interested in participating in which committees for the coming year, which will be finalized in January.
5. Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction
● Vision 2030/SOD Plan Work for 2026-27
○ Assistant Superintendent McDowell provided a presentation.
● MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved to take magnet transportation off the table for elimination and instead close an additional school, Bassett seconded.
Voting for: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 5-1 voice vote.
● MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved to remove FAIR Crystal programming, to repurpose as an elementary school - moving students to PMS or SMS by boundary; close FAIR Pilgrim Lane and move the students to FAIR Crystal building. Bowman seconded.
Voting for: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 5-1 voice vote.

● MOTION: Bowman moved to eliminate Minneapolis open enrollment transportation, Chair
Evans-Becker seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.
● There was no official vote on eliminating the International Baccalaureate (IB) Programme, but there was a 4-2 show of support-no support - with Bassett and Long wanting further discussion, and to look at programming.
6. Board Governance (None this evening.)
7. Superintendent Relations (None this evening.)
8. Community Engagement (None this evening.)
9. Information Items (None this evening.)
10. Future Agenda Topics (None this evening.)
11. Meeting concluded at 9:41 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board