Robbinsdale Area Schools
Statutory
Operating Debt
Plan and
Reimagine
Administrative Report
September 23, 2025

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.
2

Thank you Reimagine Team
● 37 Members
● 10 meetings
● 2000 hours
● 1 Day of School visits
● Additional writing / editing /
presentation team hours
17,000 community Multiple data sets: Achievement members, students, and demographics, enrollment parents/caregivers, and trends, academic programming, staff facilities conditions, safety, capacity, and survey information
3

What We Heard
We have an opportunity to unify the district around a core identity, strengthen community pride, and build a sense of belonging across all seven cities.
● Right-size/Resize (one High School, two to three Middle Schools, six to nine Elementary Schools)
● Create district-wide Arts and Innovation Identity
● Provide contemporary, safe, and secure spaces
● Continue with Spanish Immersion
● Narrow focus/Expand opportunities
○ Expand Magnet impact by delivering with fidelity to ALL elementary students
○ Strengthen and increase secondary opportunities for ALL students
● Bonding for building will be needed
4

Our Current Reality
We HAVE to create an SOD plan.
We GET to design for the Rdale future!
5

So What... Now What
SOD Plan is due January 31, 2026
● Clear financial projections: Realistic enrollment and revenue assumptions, expenditure reductions, demonstrating a path back to structural balance.
● Specific strategies: Actions such as staffing adjustments, program changes, and budget realignments that directly address the operating debt.
● Multi-year framework: Plan showing how the district will steadily move out of
SOD.
● Monitoring and accountability: Tracking implementation and progress for reporting to board and the MDE.
6

Short-Term Draft Timeline
TASK: By January 20, 2026, finalize SOD Plan to include initial reduction of facilities footprint and related items.
September October November December January
Board direction for SOD and beyond
Options presented and considered
Final facility repurposing 26-27 recommendation
Public input and Board approval
SOD planning and refinement
Final SOD plan approval
7

Short-Term Draft Timeline
Sept 23 - Board meeting (ReImagine Presentation & Administration overview of timeline)
Oct 6 - Board meeting (Present more detailed information towards recommendations)
Oct 13* - Board meeting (Present more detailed information towards recommendations)
Oct 20 - Board meeting (Present Phase one recommendations and SOD items)
Nov 3 - Board meeting (Finalize Phase one options and other SOD items)
Nov 17 - Board meeting (Present final facility recommendations for 2026-2027 and SOD items)
Nov 24* - Board meeting (Final facility recommendations for 2026-2027 and SOD items)
Dec 1 - Board meeting (Regular business completed for month of Dec)
Dec 8* - Board meeting (Public Input/hearing/Board vote for any school closures)
Dec 15 - Board meeting (Business meeting/work session)
Jan 5 - Board meeting (Final draft SOD)
Jan 20 - Board meeting (SOD vote)
8

Extended Draft Timeline
Phase I (Sept 2025 - August 2026) - SOD Plan, reduce footprint through initial building closure/consolidation/reconfiguration plan; plan remaining building configuration planning and related bond work; create initial boundary adjustments; finalize initial operation changes.
Phase II (January 2026 - August 2027) - Implementation of initial reconfiguration, finalize longer-term building configuration and related bonding needs (Nov 2026); plan long term programmatic, operational, and boundary changes. Potentially begin first facility improvements.
Phase III (March 2027 - August 2028) - Implementation of additional reconfiguration moves; facility improvement projects; programmatic planning and prep; final facility staging.
Phase IV (March 2028 - August 2029) - Facility improvements; Implementation of programmatic changes; Planning and prep for additional programming; final facility moves.
Phase V (March 2029 - August 2030) - Fully implement ReImagine Rdale 2030; complete SOD
9

Administrative
Recommendation
The administration recommends the Robbinsdale school board takes action to direct Robbinsdale school district administration to begin acting on the draft timelines outlined for both SOD
planning and ReImagine. 2030.
10