Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Adopted: (enter date here)
306 POLICY - ADMINISTRATOR CODE OF ETHICS
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to establish the requirements of the school board that school administrators adhere to the standards of ethics and professional conduct in this policy and
Minnesota law.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. An educational administrator's professional behavior must conform to an ethical code.
The code must be idealistic and at the same time practical, so that it can apply reasonably to all educational administrators. The administrator acknowledges that the schools belong to the public they serve for the purpose of providing educational opportunities to all.
However, the administrator assumes responsibility for providing professional leadership in the school and community. This responsibility requires the administrator to maintain standards of exemplary professional conduct. It must be recognized that the administrator's actions will be viewed and appraised by the community, professional associates, and students. To these ends, the administrator must subscribe to the following standards.
B. The Educational Administrator:
1. Makes the well-being of students the fundamental value of all decision-making and actions.
2. Fulfills professional responsibilities with honesty and integrity.
3. Supports the principle of due process and protects the civil and human rights of all individuals.
4. Obeys local, state, and national laws and does not knowingly join or support organizations that advocate, directly or indirectly, the overthrow of the government.
5. Implements the school board's policies.
6. Pursues appropriate measures to correct those laws, policies, and regulations that
DRAFTare not consistent with sound educational goals.
7. Avoids using positions for personal gain through political, social, religious, economic, or other influence.
8. Accepts academic degrees or professional certification only from duly accredited institutions.
9. Maintains the standards and seeks to improve the effectiveness of the profession

through research and continuing professional development.
10. Honors all contracts until fulfillment, release, or dissolution is mutually agreed upon by all parties to the contract.
11. Adheres to the Code of Ethics for School Administrators in Minnesota Rule.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 122A.14, Subd. 4 (Duties of Board of School Administrators)
Minn. Rules Part 3512.5200 (Code of Ethics for School Administrators)
Cross References: None
DRAFT