Summary Minutes of Special Study Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed: December 15, 2025

Monday, November 24, 2025 beginning at 6:00 p.m.

1.

8.

9.

Welcome/Land Acknowledgement
Chair Evans-Becker welcomed everyone, and read the district land acknowledgement.

Introductions
Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand,
Caroline Long, Dr. Kenneth Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Senior Leadership Team Members present:

Dr. Bob McDowell, Assistant Superintendent

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics, and Activities

Purpose and Agenda

Superintendent Staloch reviewed the Board's 2025-26 Agenda and Working Document noting tonight's

discussion is for work highlighted Under Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational

Direction, specifically:

e Approve Statutory Operating Debt (SOD) plan, and monitoring and using enrollment trends to plan strategically for current and future facilities, staffing, and budget decisions for submission to the
Minnesota Department of Education (MDE) by January 31, 2026

e Review Phase | Vision 2030/SOD Plan additional options

District Governance and Policy
Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction e Vision 2030/SOD Plan Work for 2026-27
o Assistant Superintendent McDowell provided a presentation.
o District administration requested "What more information is needed?" from the Board.
o The Board asked questions and made requests throughout the meeting, including a request to add an additional Listening Time be added prior to the Business Meeting on December 1, 2025.
Board Governance (None this evening.)
Superintendent Relations (None this evening.)
Community Engagement (None this evening.)

Information Items (None this evening.)

10. Future Agenda Topics (None this evening.)

11. Meeting concluded at 9:20 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board