LAM RoBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved March 16, 2026

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, March 2, 2026, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Welcome and Land Acknowledgement

Call to Order/Roll Call
Directors present: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: Bassett. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Wutoh moved to approve the agenda, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

Rdale Proud: Neill Elementary - The Impact of Catalyst
Lana Lindeman, Interim Principal, and her team shared data around the implementation of Catalyst throughout their school, and the positive impact it has had on students and staff.

District System of Continuous Improvement

A. District Scorecard Data - Quarter 2 Update
Dr. Erica Ahlgren, Assistant Director of Analytics, provided an update of scorecard data from the conclusion of second quarter.

B. Theme C: Collaboration and Partnerships - Theme C1: Strengthen mutual communication and responsiveness with all stakeholders
Derrick Williams, Interim Director of Communications, provided an update of progress to date regarding improving communications with all stakeholders.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Hillenbrand seconded.

Voting in favor: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 5-1 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business

A. Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030
Dr. Bob McDowell, Assistant Superintendent and Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer provided additional information, took questions from the Board, and noted additional information requests.

B. 2026-27 School Board Meetings Schedule
MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved approval of the schedule with November 4, 2026 added for Canvassing the
Election, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

New Business

A. Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $10,704.64
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the donations, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 roll call vote.

B. Adjustment to the 2025-26 District Calendar
MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the change of Monday, June 1 to be the last student contact day for grades
K-8 and Tuesday, June 2 to be a packing day for those impacted by school closures and consolidation, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

Policy

A. Committee Report
Vice Chair Wutoh provided an update on current committee work, and noted the next meeting is scheduled for
Wednesday, March 18, 2026.
B. Second Read (Action) Policies e 204 Policy - School Board Meeting Minutes e 427 Policy - Workload Limits for Certain Special Education Teachers
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the policies, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.
C. First Read Policies:
e 501 Policy - School Weapons
502 Policy - Search of Student Lockers, Desks, Personal Possessions, and Student's Person
504 Policy - Student Dress and Appearance
505 Policy - Distribution of Nonschool-Sponsored Materials on School Premises by Students and Employees
508 Policy - Extended School Year for Certain Students with Individualized Education Programs (IEPs)
511 Policy - Student Fundraising
517 Policy - Student Recruiting
518 Policy - DNR-DNI Orders
519 Policy - Interviews of Students by Outside Agencies
520 Policy - Student Surveys
525 Policy - Violence Prevention
527 Policy - Student Use and Parking of Motor Vehicles; Patrols, Inspections, and Searches
528 Policy - Student, Parental, Family, and Marital Status Nondiscrimination

Administrative Reports
A. Superintendent's Report - Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. Highlights of the presentation included:
e | Love to Read Month (February) activities in schools e Music in Our Schools Month (March)
o Armstrong's musical - Brigadoon
© Cooper's musical - You're a Good Man Charlie Brown o District Orchestra Festival on Saturday, March 7, 2026 at Cooper High School e Black History Month (February)
© Cooper's Black History Month Expo o Black History Month Celebration at Robbinsdale Middle School (RMS)
e District Caregiver Survey to help schools and district better understand family perspectives, identify strengths and focus on opportunities for improvement e Seven Dreams Foundation dedicated $55,000 in 2026-27 Hands-On Learning Grants for our educators

Board Committee Reports and Board Reports

This portion of the agenda provides an opportunity for each Board member to do a brief update regarding work

pertaining to their Board duties. At this evening's Listening Time, four individuals spoke regarding the following topics:
e Safety concerns due to underresourced schools

Format of Listening Sessions

SOD. AHS closure. Community.

Plan to DECREASE debt instead of increase

Finances

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, and Hillenbrand seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote. Meeting adjourned at 10:36 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Date:

School Board Clerk, ISD 281