School-Based
Mental Health
Partnerships
Toni Boyden
5.4.2026

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

25 Years of Partnership
Robbinsdale has been a leader with this state grant with Hennepin County, which runs through July, 2026.
Partnerships with following agencies:
● People Incorporated
● VEEMAH
● Vona (Volunteers of America health clinic)
Requirements of the grant:
● Working collaboratively with school districts to ensure services are coordinate and integrated.
● Providing mental health services throughout the calendar year.
● Collecting and reporting evaluation data to DHS on quarterly basis.
● Billing all available pulic & private insurance for clinical services.

Role of School-Based
Mental Health Services
● Improve identification of children & youth mental health needs & disorders
● Increase access to mental health services and sustained engagement in treatment through reducing barriers such as:
○ Transportation
○ Caregiver time off work to take child to appointments
○ Missed time from school
○ Overall stigma regarding mental health
● Improve outcomes for children with a mental health diagnosis
● Provide coordination of care between school staff and mental health providers
● Increase accessibility for children and youth that are uninsured or underinsured

Student Referral Process
● Anyone can call and make a referral: student or parent, school staff, etc.
● The agency will follows up.
○ Connects regarding insurance. If family does not have insurance, agencies help the families through various resources: sliding fee scale,
MA etc. payment plans for co-pays/deductibles (40% of our families).
■ Money should not be an obstacle for services.
● Intake scheduled and completed.
● Introductory conversation (complimentary)
● Treatment plan created
● Diagnosis assessment if needed
● Consent signed
● Sessions begin

Therapy Services in the
RAS Schools
● FTE at each building which follows throughout the summer.
● 1.0 therapist carries a caseload of approximately 20-25 students
● Students are serviced
○ Average of 1x per week
○ Extreme 2x per week
○ 2x every other as progression occurs
● Group Therapy and Family Therapy offered and provided
● Outpatient Therapy (diagnosing a mental illness and treating a mental illness)

People Incorporated Sites
24-25 Numbers
● Children served district wide - 339
● Referrals made - 326
● Referrals that didn't become clients - 148
● Completed services (discharges) - 131

Therapy throughout the Summer
Eliminating the barriers of access in the summer, therapy sessions are offered and provided:
● Therapists go to homes
● Meet in public places
● House in school buildings in the summer if possible
● House at adventure club when possible
● Attend field trips during summer school

Collaboration with
School Staff
Examples of Support with school staff:
● MTSS participation
● Training provided to staff
● Coordinating with social workers
● Quarterly meetings with school
● IEP meetings
● Parent Meetings

Questions?