Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
March 16, 2026

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

AHS Quiz Bowl takes second at ACRONYM 19
Members of Armstrong's Quiz Bowl Team recently had a fantastic showing at the
ACRONYM 19 pop culture quiz bowl tournament! The team went undefeated all the way to the finals, finishing second after a hard-fought battle against Minnetonka.
Two members of the team, Nima and Ben, both won books as prizes for being in the top 15 individual scorers.

"Math Madness" at Neill
Neill students are thoroughly enjoying
"Math Madness", which features entertaining math activities like estimation, graphing, listening to math stories, and fun dress-up days.
The students and staff celebrated 'Odd
Day' last week by dressing as creatively and unusually as they could.

Students help shape the school menu
On March 4, our Nutrition Services team invited 25 Armstrong students to sample and evaluate six potential menu items as part of the district's ongoing effort to keep school meals healthy, exciting and reflective of student tastes.
For the Nutrition Services team, these taste tests are more than a fun activity. They're an important part of how menus are built.
During taste test sessions, students evaluate dishes based on flavor, texture, appearance and whether they would actually choose the item at lunch.

Upcoming NEAR Empty Bowls Event
The NEAR Empty Bowls event will take place on Thursday, March 26, from 5-7 p.m., at New Hope Church, 4225 Gettysburg Ave.
N. This event brings the community together to raise awareness and critical funds to fight hunger in our area. Empty
Bowls is a grassroots effort that highlights the reality of food insecurity while supporting the vital work of NEAR Food
Shelf.
A free-will donation includes food samples from area restaurants, a free bowl, and performances from Robbinsdale Area
Schools students and local entertainers.

Transition Planning
Across Rdale, teams are actively preparing for the 2026-27 school year with a focus on ensuring every student and staff member enters next year supported, welcomed, and ready to learn.
Key transition work underway includes:
● Weekly cross-department planning meetings
● Calendar adjustment for Packing Day
● Stages Theatre Company contract moving forward for approval
● Updated staffing timeline for schools and programs

Thank you!