Minutes of Business Meeting

Area Schools
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved May 4, 2026

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, April 20, 2026, beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."
Welcome and Land Acknowledgement

Call to Order/Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Approval of the Agenda
MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of the agenda, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

District System of Continuous Improvement

A. Theme A: Academic Achievement - Charter A2: Enhance an equitable learning system from early childhood to adults
Becky Brodeur - Senior Director of Teaching and Learning, Bridget Dooley - Principal of Northport Elementary,
Shannon Morris - Q-Comp Coordinator, and Sara Tinklenberg - Early Learning Supervisor

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.

Long requested removal of item 5.A.1. Building Improvement Long-Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Bids and
5.A.6. 2025-2027 Nutrition Services Tentative Agreement for discussion.

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda items - excluding items 5.A.1. And 5.A.6., Brynteson seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of Building Improvement LTFM Bids, Hillenbrand seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Abstaining: Long

Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote.

MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of the 2025-2027 Nutrition Services Tentative Agreement, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote.

Unfinished Business - None for this evening.

New Business
A. Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $7636.27
MOTION: Bassett moved approval of the donations, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote.
B. Review of Intermediate District 287 LTFM Information and Discussion
In preparation for moving resolution to action at the May 4, 2026 Business Meeting.
C. Level Ill Custodian Grievance
MOTION: Bowman moved to refer the grievance to arbitration, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

Policy
A. Committee Report - Dr. Kenneth Wutoh, School Board Vice Chair
The Policy Committee's next meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, May 20, 2026 at 5:00 p.m.
B. Second Read (Action) Policies
MOTION: Wutoh moved to repeal 698 Policy - Teaching State Standards, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the second read policies - excluding repealed 698 policy, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.
C. First Read Policies for Review:
e 535 Policy - Service Animals in Schools e 703 Policy - Annual Audit e 704 Policy - Development and Maintenance of an Inventory of Fixed Assets and a Fixed Asset Accounting
System e 705 Policy - Investments e 714 Policy - Fund Balances e 721 Policy - Procurement
These policies will come to second read (action) at the May 4, 2026 Business Meeting.

Administrative Reports
A. Superintendent's Report - Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Future Events
Available on our website.

Adjournment
MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 7:12 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant erintendent and School Board

Signed: A Date: 45 - Lo RO4f

School BoaréVClerk, ISD 281