To: School Board and Superintendent Staloch
From: Policy Committee
Date: March 2, 2026
Re: Policy Committee Report
The Policy Committee convened on February 18, 2026 to continue its work on reviewing and advancing policies. The committee remains committed to ensuring that policies are updated.
As part of this process, the Cabinet is actively reviewing and providing input and engaging other relevant stakeholders as appropriate.
We appreciate the dedication of all involved in this critical work and will continue to provide updates as policies progress through review and approval.
Our next meeting is March 18, 2026.
POLICIES FOR FIRST READ
Policy Number
Purpose Policy Change Description of Change and Title
501 Policy - School Cycle Review Changes reflect ● Added letter A. in III.
most current MSBA Definitions
Weapons
Policy ● Added Active
Shooter in VII.
Reports of
Dangerous
Weapon, updated letter A. and added letter B 1. & 2.
502 Policy - Search Cycle Review Changing from AP ● Changed to Policy administrators to of Student Lockers, officials throughout
Desks, Personal
Changes reflect policy.
Possessions and most current MSBA ● Added letter D.
Student's Person
Policy Implementation of
Policy.
● III Definitions updated language under A.
504 Policy - Student Cycle Review Changing from AP ● Updated language
Dress and to Policy under II. General
Appearance Statement of Policy
Changes reflect letters A, B and C, D
most current MSBA and E.
Policy ● Updated language

under III.
Procedures, letter A,
B, C and D.
● Updated legal and cross references.
505 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from an ● Added Equity Policy
Distribution of AP to Policy
Non-School-
Sponsored Materials
508 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from an ● Updated references
Extended School AP to Policy
Year For Certain
Students With Changes reflect
Individualized most current MSBA
Education Plans Policy
511 Policy - Student Cycle Review Changing from AP ● Added Cross
Fundraising to Policy Reference
Changes reflect most current MSBA
Policy
517 Policy - Student Cycle Review Changing from AP ● Statute Update
Recruiting to Policy
Changes reflect most current MSBA
Policy
518 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from AP ● Under II General
DNR-DNI Orders to Policy Statement of Policy added Individual
Changes reflect Education Plan most current MSBA
Policy
519 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from AP ● Added language in
Interviews of to Policy section III letter A, C
Students by Outside and D
Agencies Changes reflect most current MSBA
Policy
520 Policy - Student Cycle Review Changing from AP ● Language updates
Surveys to Policy in Section IV
Student Surveys
Changes reflect letter C; 1, a, b, c, 2 a; most current MSBA 3. #2, 2b2, & c
Policy ● Added Resources
● Added Equity Policy
525 Policy - Violence Cycle Review Changing from AP ● Added language

Prevention to Policy under II General
Statement letter A.
Changes reflect ● Added language most current MSBA under III.
Policy Implementation letter D.
● Added language under IV Prevention
Strategies letters A,
C, F
● Added equity policy
527 Policy - Student Cycle Review Changing from AP ● Language updates
Use of Motor to Policy section III
Vehicles; Patrols, Definitions letter A
Inspection and Changes reflect ● Language updates
Searches most current MSBA in section IV
Policy ● Added Equity Policy
528 Policy - Student Cycle Review Changing from AP ● Removed language
Parental, Family and to Policy in section II General
Marital Status Statement of Policy
Changes reflect letter h most current MSBA ● Added cross
Policy references
POLICIES FOR SECOND READ
204 Policy - School
Continuation of Changing from AP ● Added designee
Board Meeting review 200 Series to Policy under III. A.
Minutes
● Reference Update
427 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from an ● Updated language
Workload limits For AP to a Policy under II. Definitions
Certain Special in A, B and C
Education Teachers Changes reflect ● Updated Cross most current MSBA References
Policy ● Added verbiage around setting III
and IV workload limits under I.
Purpose