Robbinsdale Area Schools
Independent School District 281
4148 Winnetka Ave N.
New Hope, MN 55427
763-504-8000 | rdale.org
To: School Board
From: Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Re: Level III Custodian Grievance
Date: February 2, 2026
The school board is in receipt of a Step 3 grievance filed on behalf of all affected custodial and grounds bargaining unit employees regarding the District's use of contracted custodial services. The Union has requested that the School Board meet to discuss the grievance and seek resolution.
After review of the grievance, the applicable provisions of the collective bargaining agreement, and the operational circumstances currently facing the
District, the administration recommends that the School Board deny the request for a Step 3 hearing and move the grievance to arbitration.
The District has implemented a temporary hiring freeze for custodial positions due to the consolidation of buildings and the closure of three school sites. This measure is necessary to responsibly manage staffing levels and fiscal resources while long-term operational needs for the 2026-2027 school year are determined.
During this consolidation period, the District has utilized contracted custodial services to address short-term staffing needs and ensure the safe and effective operation of District facilities.
The use of contracted services during this period is temporary and intended to minimize the reduction of permanent Robbinsdale bargaining unit employees.
Contracted positions will be discontinued, to the extent possible, at the conclusion of the 2025-2026 school year. Any permanent custodial positions identified as necessary thereafter will be posted and filled in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement.
The administration maintains that the District has not violated the collective bargaining agreement and that its actions are consistent with the management rights and operational authority reserved to the District. Given the contractual interpretation issues raised by the grievance, the administration believes arbitration is the appropriate forum to obtain a definitive and binding resolution.
Accordingly, the administration recommends that the School Board deny the
Union's request for a Step 3 hearing and authorize the District to proceed to arbitration.
Believe | Belong | Become