Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Adopted: 9/8/2014
Reviewed and Revised: February 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
511AP 511 POLICY - STUDENT FUNDRAISING
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to address student fundraising efforts.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
The school board recognizes a desire and a need by some student organizations for fundraising.
The school board also recognizes a need for some constraint to prevent fundraising activities from becoming too numerous and overly demanding on employees, students and the general public.
III. RESPONSIBILITY
A. It shall be the responsibility of the building administrators to develop recommendations to the superintendent that will result in a level of activity deemed acceptable by employees, parents and students. Fundraising must be conducted in a manner that will not result in embarrassment on the part of individual students, employees, or the school.
B. All fundraising activities must be approved in advance by the administration.
Participation in nonapproved activities shall be considered a violation of school district policy.
C. It shall be the responsibility of the superintendent to provide coordination of student fundraising throughout the school district as deemed appropriate.
D. The school district expects all students who participate in approved fundraising activities to represent the school, the student organization and the community in a responsible manner. All rules pertaining to student conduct and student discipline extend to student fundraising activities.
E. The school district expects all employees who plan, supervise, coordinate, or participate in student fundraising activities to act in the best interests of the students and to represent the school, the student organization, and the community in a responsible manner.
F. Fundraising activities during the school day shall be limited in number and shall not conflict with regulations relating to food service programs, as prescribed by the State.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 120A.20 (Age Limitations; Pupils)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.09, Subd. 8 (Duties)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.36 (Authorized Fees)

Cross References: The Student Behavior Handbook MSBA/MASA Model Policy 506 (Student
Discipline)