Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Original 1995
Adopted September 19, 2011
Revised & Approved November 2022 July 2025
Approved: (enter date here)
418 POLICY - DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE/DRUG-FREE SCHOOL
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to maintain a safe and healthful environment for employees and students by prohibiting the use of alcohol, toxic substances, medical cannabis, non intoxicating cannabinoids (including edible cannabinoid products), and controlled substances without a physician's prescription.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. Use or possession of alcohol, toxic substances, medical cannabis, non intoxicating cannabinoids (including edible cannabinoid products), and controlled substances before, during, or after school hours, at school or in any other school location, is prohibited as general policy. Paraphernalia associated with controlled substances is prohibited.
B. It shall be a violation of this policy for any student, teacher, administrator, other school district personnel, or member of the public to use alcohol, toxic substances, medical cannabis, non intoxicating cannabinoids (including edible cannabinoid products), or controlled substances in any school location.
C. The school district will act to enforce this policy and to discipline or take appropriate action against any student, teacher, administrator, school personnel, or member of the public who violates this policy.
III. DEFINITIONS
A. "Alcohol" includes any alcoholic beverage containing more than one-half of one percent alcohol by volume.
B. "Controlled substances" include narcotic drugs, hallucinogenic drugs, amphetamines, barbiturates, marijuana, anabolic steroids, or any other controlled substance as defined in
Schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 United States Code section
812, including analogues and look-alike drugs.DRAFT
C. "Edible cannabinoid product" means any product that is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans, contains a cannabinoid in combination with food ingredients, and is not a drug.
D. "Nonintoxicating cannabinoid" means substances extracted from certified hemp plants that do not produce intoxicating effects when consumed by any route of administration.

E. "Medical cannabis" means any species of the genus cannabis plant, or any mixture or preparation of them, including whole plant extracts and resins, and is delivered in the form of: (1) liquid, including, but not limited to, oil; (2) pill; (3) vaporized delivery method with use of liquid or oil but which does not require the use of dried leaves or plant form; or (4)
combustion with use of dried raw cannabis; or (5) any other method, excluding smoking, approved by the commissioner.
F. "Toxic substances" includes: (1) glue, cement, aerosol paint, containing toluene, benzene, xylene, amyl nitrate, butyl nitrate, nitrous oxide, or containing other aromatic hydrocarbon solvents, but does not include glue, cement, or paint contained in a packaged kit for the construction of a model automobile, airplane, or similar item; (2) butane or a butane lighter; or (3) any similar substance declared to be toxic to the central nervous system and to have a potential for abuse, by a rule adopted by the commissioner of health.
G. "Use" includes to sell, buy, manufacture, distribute, dispense, possess, use, or be under the influence of alcohol,toxic substances, medical cannabis, non intoxicating cannabinoids
(including edible cannabinoid products), and/or controlled substances, whether or not for the purpose of receiving remuneration or consideration.
H. "Possess" means to have on one's person, in one's effects, or in an area subject to one's control.
I. "School location" includes any school building or on any school premises; in any school-owned vehicle or in any other school-approved vehicle used to transport students to and from school or school activities; off school property at any school sponsored or school-approved activity, event, or function, such as a field trip or athletic event, where students are under the jurisdiction of the school district; or during any period of time such employee is supervising students on behalf of the school district or otherwise engaged in school district business.
IV. EXCEPTIONS
A. It shall not be a violation of this policy for a person to bring onto a school location, for such person's own use, a controlled substance which has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States and the person has a physician's prescription for the substance. The person shall comply with the relevant procedures of this policy.
B. It shall not be a violation of this policy for a person to possess an alcoholic beverage in a school location when the possession is within the exceptions of Minnesota. Statutes.
section§DRAFT 624.701, Subdivision. 1a (experiments in laboratories; pursuant to a temporary license to sell liquor issued under Minnesota laws or possession after the purchase from such a temporary license holder).
C. The school district may not refuse to enroll or otherwise penalize a patient or person enrolled in the Minnesota Patient Registry Program or a Tribal medical cannabis program as a pupil solely because the patient or person is enrolled in the registry program or a Tribal medical cannabis program, unless failing to do so would violate federal law or regulations

or cause the school to lose a monetary or licensing-related benefit under federal law or regulations.
An employer or a school must provide written notice to a patient at least 14 days before the employer or school takes an action against the patient that is prohibited under Minnesota
Statutes, section 342.57, subdivision 3 or 5. The written notice must cite the specific federal law or regulation that the employer or school believes would be violated if the employer or school fails to take action. The notice must specify what monetary or licensing-related benefit under federal law or regulations that the employer or school would lose if the employer or school fails to take action.
A school or an employer must not retaliate against a patient for asserting the patient's rights or seeking remedies under Minnesota Statutes, section 342.57 or section 152.32.
V. PROCEDURES
A. Students who have a prescription from a physician for medical treatment with a controlled substance must comply with the school district's student medication policy.
[Note: School districts are required by Minnesota. Statutes., §section 121A.22 to develop procedures for the administration of drugs and medicine. If the school district does not have a student medication policy such as MSBA/MASA Model Policy 516, this Paragraph
A. can be modified to provide: "Students who have a prescription from a physician for medical treatment with a controlled substance must provide a copy of the prescription and the medication to the school nurse, principal, or other designated staff member. The school district's licensed school nurse, trained health clerk, principal, or teacher will administer the prescribed medication in accordance with school district procedures."]
B. Employees who have a prescription from a physician for medical treatment with a controlled substance are permitted to possess such controlled substance and associated necessary paraphernalia, such as an inhaler or syringe. The employee must inform his or her supervisor. The employee may be required to provide a copy of the prescription.
C. Each employee shall be provided with written notice of this Drug-Free
Workplace/Drug-Free School policy and shall be required to acknowledge that he or she has received the policy.
[Note: The Drug-Free Workplace Act requires that school district employees be notified by a published statement of the prohibition of the use of controlled substances and actions that will be taken against employees for violations of such prohibition. 41 United States
Code sectionU.S.C. § 8103; 34 C.F.R.Code of Federal Regulations Part 84. An acknowledgment will document satisfaction by the school district of this federalDRAFT
requirement.]
D. Employees are subject to the school district's drug and alcohol testing policies and procedures.
E. Members of the public are not permitted to possess controlled substances in a school location except with the express permission of the superintendent.

F. No person is permitted to possess or use medical cannabis on a school bus or van; or on the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school; or on the grounds of any child care facility. This prohibition includes (1) vaporizing or combusting medical cannabis on any form of public transportation where the vapor or smoke could be inhaled by a minor child or in any public place, including indoor or outdoor areas used by or open to the general public or place of employment; and (2) operating, navigating, or being in actual physical control of any motor vehicle or working on transportation property, equipment or facilities while under the influence of medical cannabis.
G. Possession of alcohol on school grounds pursuant to the exceptions of Minnesota. Statutes section. § 624.701, Subdivision 1a, shall be by permission of the school board only. The applicant shall apply for permission in writing and shall follow the school board procedures for placing an item on the agenda.
VI. SCHOOL PROGRAMS
A. Starting in the 2026-2027 school year, the school district must implement a comprehensive education program on cannabis use and substance use, including but not limited to the use of fentanyl or mixtures containing fentanyl, for students in middle school and high school. The program must include instruction on the topics listed in Minnesota Statutes, section 120B.215, subdivision 1 and must:
1. respect community values and encourage students to communicate with parents, guardians, and caregivers and other trusted adults about cannabis use and substance use, including but not limited to the use of fentanyl or mixtures containing fentanyl; and
2. refer students to local resources where students may obtain medically accurate information about cannabis use and substance use, including but not limited to the use of fentanyl or mixtures containing fentanyl, and treatment for a substance use disorder.
B. School district efforts to develop, implement, or improve instruction or curriculum as a result of the provisions of this section must be consistent with Minnesota
Statutes, sections 120B.10 and 120B.11.
C. Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, the school district shall have a procedure for a parent, a guardian, caregiver or an adult student 18 years of age or older to review the content of the instructional materials to be provided to a minor child or to an adult student pursuant to this article. The district must allow a parent or adult student to opt out of instruction under this article with no academic or other penalty
DRAFTfor the student and must inform parents and adult students of this right to opt out.
VI. ENFORCEMENT
A. Students
1. Students may be required to participate in programs and activities that provide education against the use of alcohol, tobacco, marijuana, smokeless tobacco products, and electronic cigarettes, and nonintoxicating cannabinoids (including

edible cannabinoid products),
2. Students may be referred to drug or alcohol assistance or rehabilitation programs; school based mental health services, mentoring and counseling, including early identification of mental health symptoms, drug use and violence and appropriate referral to direct individual or group counseling service. which may be provided by school based mental health services providers; and/or referral to law enforcement officials when appropriate.
3. A student who violates the terms of this policy shall be subject to discipline in accordance with the school district's discipline policy. Such discipline may include suspension or expulsion from school.
B. Employees
1. As a condition of employment in any federal grant, each employee who is engaged either directly or indirectly in performance of a federal grant shall abide by the terms of this policy and shall notify his or her supervisor in writing of his or her conviction of any criminal drug statute for a violation occurring in any of the places listed above on which work on a school district federal grant is performed, no later than five (5) calendar days after such conviction.
2. An employee who violates the terms of this policy is subject to disciplinary action, including nonrenewal, suspension, termination, or discharge as deemed appropriate by the school board.
3. In addition, any employee who violates the terms of this policy may be required to satisfactorily participate in a drug and/or alcohol abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved by the school district. Any employee who fails to satisfactorily participate in and complete such a program is subject to nonrenewal, suspension, or termination as deemed appropriate by the school board.
4. Sanctions against employees, including nonrenewal, suspension, termination, or discharge shall be pursuant to and in accordance with applicable statutory authority, collective bargaining agreements, and school district policies.
C. The Public
A member of the public who violates this policy shall be informed of the policy and asked to leave. If necessary, law enforcement officials will be notified and asked to provide an escort.
DRAFT

Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 121A.22 (Administration of Drugs and Medicine)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.40-§ 121A.56 (Pupil Fair Dismissal Act)
Minn. Stat. § 151.72 (Sale of Certain Cannabinoid Products)
Minn. Stat. § 152.22, subd. 6 (Medical Cannabis; Definitions; Medical
Cannabis)
Minn. Stat. § 152.23 (Medical Cannabis; Limitations; Medical
Cannabis)
Minn. Stat. § 340A.101 (Definitions; Alcoholic Beverage)
Minn. Stat. § 340A.403 (3.2 Percent Malt Liquor Licenses)
Minn. Stat. § 340A.404 (Intoxicating Liquor; On-Sale Licenses)
Minn. Stat. § 609.684 (Abuse of Toxic Substances)
Minn. Stat. § 624.701 (Liquor in Certain Buildings or Grounds)
20 U.S.C. § 7101-7165
21 U.S.C. § 812 (Schedules of Controlled Substances)
41 U.S.C. §§ 701-707 (Drug-Free Workplace Act)
21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11-1308.15 (Controlled Substances)
34 C.F.R. Part 84 (Government-wide Requirements for Drug-Free
Workplace)
Cross References: 403AP (Discipline, Suspension, and Dismissal of School District
Employees)
416AP (Drug and Alcohol Testing)
Policy 417 (Chemical Use and Abuse)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 419 (Tobacco-Free Environment;
Possession and use of Tobacco, Tobacco-Related Devices, and
Electronic Delivery Devices; Vaping Awareness and Prevention
Instruction)506AP (Student Discipline)
Policy 516 (Student Medication)
Resources: To support the requirements for school districts and charter schools outlined in
Minnesota Statute 2024, section 120B.215, subdivision 2, and in accordance with subdivision 1, MDE, in collaboration with MDH, the Minnesota Department of
Human Services (DHS), and education experts, has created a List of Model
Cannabis Education Programs for School District and Charter School
Consideration.
Schools may choose to implement one of the listed programs or they may implement their own program(s) identified through a local curriculum adoption process by the 2026-27 school year. While it is not required for a school district or charter school to use one of the programs in the list, the list and rubric provided may be useful to school districts and charter schools in their own decision-making process.
DRAFT
Please visit MDE's Health Education webpage for more information.