To: Members of the School Board
From: Dr. Bob McDowell, Assistant Superintendent
Date: May 18, 2026
Re: Extended Field Trip - International Travel Requiring School Board
Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
The School Board approves the Cooper High School trip to Costa Rica June 20-29, 2026.
DISCUSSION:
Per policy 610 Field Trips, revised April 2026, field trips outside the United States must be approved by the school board.
James Stranton, science teacher at Cooper High School, will be taking 8 students to Costa
Rica to participate in the Seeds of Change Research program. This is the second year
Mr. Stanton will bring a group of students to Costa Rica to experience an intense immersive science research program. Students will spend nine days doing tropical field research on leaf-cutter ants, butterflies and other insects in the rainforests and cloud forests of Northern Costa Rica. Students will have the opportunity to earn three college credits.
Outcomes:
● Students will apply the scientific method by designing and conducting an experiment based on their own interests, analyzing real-world ecological data to draw evidence-based conclusions.
● Students will collaborate with leading scientists in the field of ecology, microbiology and field research, gaming hands on experience in cutting-edge research within a tropical environment.
● Students will experience being a chocolatier for a day. They will start with locally grown cocoa beans and create high-end chocolates only sold in the upscale European market.
● Students will access a butterfly laboratory that produces Morpho Butterflies to look for new antibiotics.
● Students will learn that research involves embracing failure and capitalizing on what was learned to advance to a higher level of understanding. Lessons not only apply to science but to life in general.
Students and their families are responsible for the trip fees at about $4700.00 each .
These students will share their experience after the trip at a School Board meeting in
September or October of 2026.