School Finance Terminology
Adjusted Pupils Units: Adjusted pupil units, or adjusted weighted average daily membership, is the primary pupil count used in school-funding formulas. The count is weighted by grade level (.55 for half-day kindergarten, 1.0 for full-day kindergarten and elementary grades, and 1.2 for secondary grades) and
"adjusted" to reflect students served.
Aid Entitlement: 100 percent of the state aid due a school district for a fiscal year, regardless of when the aid is actually received by the school district.
Average Daily Membership (ADM): The sum for all pupils of the number of days in the district's school year that each pupil is enrolled, divided by the number of days the schools are in session.
Categorical Aid: Funds paid by the state to school districts and designated for specific purposes, such as transportation, special education for disabled children, and career and technical education. Categorical aids are relatively minor compared to general education revenue, the main school district funding stream.
Fiscal Year: A 12-month period between settlements of financial accounts. The fiscal year for the state and school districts runs from July 1 through June 30 and is identified by the calendar year in which it ends. For example, fiscal year 2025 runs from July 1, 2024, through June 30, 2025. A fiscal year is interchangeable with a school year for school finance purposes. For example, fiscal year 2025 is equivalent to the 2024-25 school year.
Formula Allowance: The dollar amount per pupil unit used to calculate each district's basic general education revenue the "front end" of the formula. The formula allowance for fiscal year 2025 is $7,281. This amount changes either because (1) the total funding is increasing or (2) existing separate formulas are "rolled in" to the general formula or funding for specific programs are "rolled out" of the general formula and into a separate formula.
General Education Revenue: General education revenue is the primary formula for providing general operating funds to school districts and charter schools and is composed of basic general education revenue; extended time revenue; declining pupil revenue; local optional revenue; gifted and talented revenue; basic skills revenue, including EL and compensatory revenue; elementary and secondary sparsity revenue; transportation revenue; operating capital; equity revenue; small schools revenue; pension adjustment reserve; and transition revenue.
Levy: A tax imposed on property. The amount of property taxes that a school board may levy is limited by statute. Each autumn, the Minnesota Department of Education computes the exact amounts of the limits on the permitted levies for each district. For levies based on adjusted tax capacity, the previous year's adjusted tax capacity value is used. Each year, school boards hold truth-in-taxation hearings, vote on how much of their maximum they want to levy, and "certify" that amount to the county auditor. Most districts certify the maximum levy possible. A levy certified in the late fall by the school board is collected by the county from the taxpayers in the calendar year beginning the following January. (See Table 85 on page 137 for an illustration of the relationship among the years for valuation, certification, collection, and use of levies.)
Pupil Units: A weighted count of pupils in ADM used in the calculation of state aid and local tax levies.