Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Approved: August 8, 2016
Revised: February 2026
501 POLICY - SCHOOL WEAPONS
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to ensure a safe school environment for students, staff and the public.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
No student or nonstudent, including adults and visitors, shall possess, use, or distribute a weapon when in a school location except as provided in this policy. The school district will act to enforce this policy and to discipline or take appropriate action against any student, teacher, administrator, school employee, volunteer, or member of the public who violates this policy.
III. DEFINITIONS
A. "Dangerous Weapon" means any firearm, whether loaded or unloaded, or any device designed as a weapon and capable of producing death or great bodily harm, any combustible or flammable liquid or other device or instrumentality that, in the manner it is used or intended to be used, is calculated or likely to produce death or great bodily harm, or any fire that is used to produce death or great bodily harm. As used in this definition,
"flammable liquid" means any liquid having a flash point below 100 degrees Fahrenheit and having a vapor pressure not exceeding 40 pounds per square inch (absolute) at 100
degrees Fahrenheit but does not include intoxicating liquor. As used in this subdivision,
"combustible liquid" is a liquid having a flash point at or above 100 degrees Fahrenheit.
B. "Possession" means having a weapon on one's person or in an area subject to one's control in a school location.
C. "School Location" includes any school building or grounds, whether leased, rented, owned or controlled by the school, locations of school activities or trips, bus stops, school buses or school vehicles, school-contracted vehicles, the area of entrance or departure from school premises or events, all locations where school-related functions are conducted, and anywhere students are under the jurisdiction of the school district.
D. "Weapon"
1. A "weapon" means any object, device or instrument designed as a weapon or through its use is capable of threatening or producing bodily harm or which may be used to inflict self-injury including, but not limited to, any firearm, whether loaded or unloaded; air guns; pellet guns; BB guns; all knives; blades; clubs; metal knuckles; num-chuks; throwing stars; explosives; fireworks; mace and other propellants; stun guns; ammunition; poisons; chains; arrows; and objects that have been modified to serve as a weapon.
2. No person shall possess, use, or distribute any object, device or instrument having

the appearance of a weapon and such objects, devices or instruments shall be treated as weapons including, but not limited to, weapons listed above which are broken or non-functional, look-alike guns; toy guns; and any object that is a facsimile of a real weapon.
3. No person shall use articles designed for other purposes (i.e., lasers or laser pointers, belts, combs, pencils, files, scissors, etc.), to inflict bodily harm and/or intimidate and such use will be treated as the possession and use of a weapon.
IV. EXCEPTIONS
A. A student who finds a weapon on the way to school or in a school location, or a student who discovers that he or she accidentally has a weapon in his or her possession, and takes the weapon immediately to the principal's office shall not be considered to possess a weapon. If it would be impractical or dangerous to take the weapon to the principal's office, a student shall not be considered to possess a weapon if he or she immediately turns the weapon over to an administrator, teacher or head coach or immediately notifies an administrator, teacher or head coach of the weapon's location.
B. It shall not be a violation of this policy if a nonstudent (or student where specified) falls within one of the following categories:
1. active licensed peace officers;
2. military personnel, or students or nonstudents participating in military training, who are on duty performing official duties;
3. persons authorized to carry a pistol under Minnesota Statutes, section 624.714
while in a motor vehicle or outside of a motor vehicle for the purpose of directly placing a firearm in, or retrieving it from, the trunk or rear area of the vehicle;
4. persons who keep or store in a motor vehicle pistols in accordance with Minnesota
Statutes, section 624.714 or 624.715 or other firearms in accordance with
Minnesota Statutes, section 97B.045; a. Minnesota Statutes, section 624.714 specifies procedures and standards for obtaining pistol permits and penalties for the failure to do so. Minnesota
Statutes, section 624.715 defines an exception to the pistol permit requirements for "antique firearms which are carried or possessed as curiosities or for their historical significance or value."
b. Minnesota Statutes, section 97B.045 generally provides that a firearm may not be transported in a motor vehicle unless it is (1) unloaded and in a gun case without any portion of the firearm exposed; (2) unloaded and in the closed trunk; or (3) a handgun carried in compliance with sections 624.714
and 624.715.
5. firearm safety or marksmanship courses or activities for students or nonstudents conducted on school property;

6. possession of dangerous weapons, BB guns, or replica firearms by a ceremonial color guard;
7. a gun or knife show held on school property;
8. possession of dangerous weapons, BB guns, or replica firearms with written permission of the principal or other person having general control and supervision of the school or the director of a childcare center; or
9. persons who are on unimproved property owned or leased by a childcare center, school or school district unless the person knows that a student is currently present on the land for a school-related activity.
C. Policy Application to Instructional Equipment/Tools
While the school district does not allow the possession, use, or distribution of weapons by students or nonstudents, such a position is not meant to interfere with instruction or the use of appropriate equipment and tools by students or nonstudents. Such equipment and tools, when properly possessed, used, and stored, shall not be considered in violation of the rule against the possession, use, or distribution of weapons. However, when authorized instructional and work equipment and tools are used in a potentially dangerous or threatening manner, such possession and use will be treated as the possession and use of a weapon.
D. Firearms in School Parking Lots and Parking Facilities
A school district may not prohibit the lawful carry or possession of firearms in a school parking lot or parking facility. For purposes of this policy, the "lawful" carry or possession of a firearm in a school parking lot or parking facility is specifically limited to nonstudent permit-holders authorized under Minnesota Statutes, section 624.714 to carry a pistol in the interior of a vehicle or outside the motor vehicle for the purpose of directly placing a firearm in, or retrieving it from, the trunk or rear area of the vehicle. Any possession or carry of a firearm beyond the immediate vicinity of a permit-holder's vehicle shall constitute a violation of this policy.
V. CONSEQUENCES FOR STUDENT WEAPON POSSESSION/USE/ DISTRIBUTION
A. The school district does not allow the possession, use, or distribution of weapons by students. Consequently, the minimum consequence for students willfully possessing, using, or distributing weapons shall include:
1. immediate out-of-school suspension;
2. confiscation of the weapon;
3. immediate notification of police;
4. parent or guardian notification; and
5. recommendation to the superintendent of dismissal for a period of time not to

exceed one (1) year.
B. Pursuant to Minnesota law, a student who brings a firearm, as defined by federal law, to school will be expelled for at least one (1) year. The school board may modify this requirement on a case-by-case basis.
C. The building principal shall, as soon as practicable, refer to the criminal justice or juvenile delinquency system, as appropriate, a student who brings a firearm to school unlawfully.
D. Administrative Discretion
While the school district does not allow the possession, use, or distribution of weapons by students, the superintendent may use discretion in determining whether, under the circumstances, a course of action other than the minimum consequences specified above is warranted. If so, other appropriate action may be taken, including consideration of a recommendation for lesser discipline.
VI. CONSEQUENCES FOR WEAPON POSSESSION/USE/DISTRIBUTION BY
NONSTUDENTS
A. Employees
1. An employee who violates the terms of this policy is subject to disciplinary action, including nonrenewal, suspension, or discharge as deemed appropriate by the school board.
2. Sanctions against employees, including nonrenewal, suspension, or discharge shall be pursuant to and in accordance with applicable statutory authority, collective bargaining agreements, and school district policies.
3. When an employee violates the weapons policy, law enforcement may be notified, as appropriate.
B. Other Nonstudents
1. Any member of the public who violates this policy shall be informed of the policy and asked to leave the school location. Depending on the circumstances, the person may be barred from future entry to school locations. In addition, if the person is a student in another school district, that school district may be contacted concerning the policy violation.
2. If appropriate, law enforcement will be notified of the policy violation by the member of the public and may be asked to provide an escort to remove the member of the public from the school location.
VII. REPORTS OF DANGEROUS WEAPON AND ACTIVE SHOOTER INCIDENTS IN
SCHOOL ZONES
A. The school district must electronically report to the Minnesota Commissioner of the

Minnesota Department of Education incidents involving the use or possession of a dangerous weapon in school zones, as required under Minnesota Statutes, section 121A.06.
B. The school district must electronically file an after-action review report for active shooter incidents and active shooter threats to the Minnesota Fusion Center as required under
Minnesota Statutes, section 121A.06.
1. "Active shooter incident" means an event involving an armed individual or individuals on campus or an armed assailant in the immediate vicinity of the school.
2. "Active shooter threat" means a real or perceived threat that an active shooter incident will occur.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 97B.045 (Transporting Firearms)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.05 (Policy to Refer Firearms Possessor)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.06 (Reports of Dangerous Weapon Incidents in School Zones)
Minn. Stat. §§ 121A.40-121A.56 (Pupil Fair Dismissal Act)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.44 (Expulsion for Possession of Firearm)
Minn. Stat. § 152.01, subd. 14(a) (Definition of a School Zone)
Minn. Stat. § 609.02, subd. 6 (Definition of Dangerous Weapon)
Minn. Stat. § 609.605 (Trespass)
Minn. Stat. § 609.66 (Dangerous Weapons)
Minn. Stat. § 624.714 (Carrying of Weapons without Permit; Penalties)
Minn. Stat. § 624.715 (Exemptions; Antiques and Ornaments)
18 U.S.C. § 921 (Definition of Firearm)
In re C.R.M., 611 N.W.2d 802 (Minn. 2000)
In re A.D., 883 N.W.2d 251 (Minn. 2016)
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 403 (Discipline, Suspension, and Dismissal of School
District Employees)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 506 (Student Discipline)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 525 (Violence Prevention)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 903 (Visitors to School District Buildings and Sites)
RAS Equity Policy 102.1