( R E ) D I S C O V E R R D A L E
MISSION DISTRICT VISION
Robbinsdale Area Schools is committed to
The mission of ensuring every student graduates career,
Robbinsdale Area articulated skilled trades and college ready.
Schools is to
We believe each student has limitless inspire and possibilities and we strive to ignite the educate all learners potential in every student.
to develop their
We expect high intellectual performance from unique potential all our students.
and positively
We are committed to ensuring an equitable contribute to their and respectful educational experience for every student, family and staff member.
community.
STRATEGIC THEMES PRIORITY OUTCOMES
District priority work and goals focused on GROUNDED IN EQUITY
strategic themes will help achieve our
Improve achievement for students mission for each student.
of color
All students are ready for school
Academic Achievement
A
Every child reading at or above grade-level
Academic and social-emotional
Student Engagement and
B
growth in middle grades
Wellness
Student engagement in school and learning
Collaboration and Partnerships
C
Student support from families to learn and achieve
Clear path and readiness for career,
Staff Investment and Impact college and life
D
S T R A T E G I C P L A N
Believe. Belong. Become.

2 0 2 5 - 2 6 P R I O R I T I E S
A
Academic Achievement
Enhance cultural relevance of curriculum for students
Expand the Science of Reading programming through continued staff training and the implementation of a new K-5 English
Language Arts curriculum.
Expand the implementation of Culturally and Linguistically Responsive Teaching to include all non-licensed and K-5 staff.
Enhance an equitable learning system from early childhood to adults
Implement with fidelity an effective teaching framework focused on student engagement and purpose.
Deepen preparation for life, college and career
Continue to build and grow RPathways through certifications, programming and student participation in dual credit and concurrent enrollment courses.
Expand the use of Xello to support middle and high school students in planning.
B
Student Engagement and Wellness
Improve student-staff connection
Maintain the BARR programming strength at two high schools and explore expansion of the program into the middle schools.
Increase the number of staff trained on the Catalyst framework and explore the expansion of the program into all K-8 sites.
Continue to implement and strengthen Restorative Practices throughout the district.
Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety
Strengthen systems and structures at the building level supporting student's feeling of social and emotional as well as physical safety.
Continue to grow a comprehensive crisis management and safety plan.
C Collaboration and Partnerships
Strengthen mutual communication and responsiveness with all stakeholders
Increase and streamline the cascade of communications to families, staff and our community.
Expand equitable inclusion and influence of student, family, staff, and community voices
Establish additional events and activities, such as family engagement events, in response to the needs and interests of our stakeholders.
Elevate the voice of all students, including the impact of the Youth Council and other student leadership groups.
D
Staff Investment and Impact
Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive, and welcoming
Develop and implement a systemic onboarding process at the district and site level for all employees to improve clarity of roles, success and retention.
Increase consistency and accountability for common district practices
S T R A T E G I C P L A N
Develop and implement operating procedures to provide clarity and expectations in standard districtwide practices.
Last Updated: July 16, 2025
Believe. Belong. Become.