Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
April 6, 2026

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

108 Rdale seniors earn MN Bilingual Seals
Having demonstrated their proficiency in reading, writing, listening and speaking in another language besides English, 108
graduating Rdale seniors will receive
Minnesota Bilingual Seals. Seven languages are represented in these awards: Spanish, French, Russian, Pashto,
Somali, Ukrainian, and Vietnamese.
A standout of these awards is a
Robbinsdale Academy-Highview senior, who was the only Rdale student this year to earn awards in more than one language
- earning a Gold Seal and a Platinum Seal in the process.

AHS selected as BARR School of Excellence
Armstrong High School has earned national recognition from The BARR
Center for the exceptional commitment of
AHS in bringing the BARR model to life -
ensuring that every student is known, supported and positioned for success.
The BARR Center recognizes a small group of schools each year that have completed three years of outstanding implementation of the BARR model.

Cooper junior qualifies for national speech tournament
Cooper junior Kyiaa Cooper has qualified for the 2026 National Speech & Debate
Tournament in the speech event Original
Oratory. In Original Oratory, students deliver a 10-minute self-written speech from memory designed to persuade on a topic of significance.
She will join three other Rdale students who qualified for the national tournament in Congressional Debate.

2026 Rdale Athena and Apollo Awards
Four student-athletes - two from
Armstrong High School and two from
Cooper High School - have been recognized by their coaches and teachers for their excellent in athletics and in the classroom.
Athena Award:
● Sarahya College, Armstrong
● Folake Olusesi, Cooper
Apollo Award:
● Eli Kuempel, Armstrong
● Tacarie Siner, Cooper

SMS receives FSCS Expansion Grant
● Three year $555,000 grant awarded from the Minnesota Department of
Education to expand the FSCS work happening at Sandburg Middle
School
● Priorities include improved academic achievement, out-of-school time opportunities, and family engagement.
● Positions Sandburg to support growing enrollment with RMS closure

Vision 2030 Community Engagement
This spring, we are expanding opportunities for our community to learn, engage, and help shape the future of
Rdale.
● Vision Team+ Focus Group - April 16
● Community Conversation - 6:30-8:30
p.m., April 27, Cooper High School
● Districtwide engagement events -
May 6 and May 13 (details coming)
● Student and staff engagement - May dates being finalized
● Community survey - May (Morris
Leatherman Company)

Thank you!