Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
March 2, 2026

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

I Love to Read Month
February is I Love to Read Month, and our schools have been filled with creativity and joy celebrating literacy.
From classroom doors decorated as favorite book covers to Drop Everything
And Read (DEAR) time, mystery and guest readers, and more, our schools are finding fun ways to help students fall in love with reading.

Music in Our Schools Month
March is Music in Our Schools Month, a time to honor and celebrate the importance of music in the lives and education of our students.
Armstrong and Cooper's musicals are fantastic examples of the importance of music in our schools. Music provides students with the opportunities to express themselves, be passionate about creative works, and be vulnerable as they perform for audiences of all ages.

Music in Our Schools Month

CHS Black History Month Expo
On Feb. 26, Cooper High School held its annual Black History Month Expo!
The CHS gym was filled with energy as students and staff took the stage with music and dance to honor Black history, culture, and achievement.
The event was organized by the Student
Council, who partnered with 35
organizations to have booths and connect with students.

CHS Black History Month Expo

Black History Month Celebration
The Rdale community came together for an unforgettable Black History Month celebration on Feb. 20 The event was a joyful affirmation of culture, creativity, and togetherness-and a powerful reminder that unity is our strength. Students, families, and community members filled the evening with energy, powerful reflections, and inspiring performances.

Black History Month Celebration

Black History Month Celebration

Black History Month Celebration

Caregiver Survey
Rdale is asking families to share honest, anonymous feedback about your school so we can celebrate what's working-and improve what isn't, now through March 24
The responses will help our schools and district better understand family perspectives, identify strengths, and focus on opportunities for improvement.

Bird Bash: Hands-On Learning
Grants
The Seven Dreams Education
Foundation has dedicated $55,000 for
2026-27 Hands-On Learning Grants to our educators! This will be the 23rd year of the granting program which has made a tremendous positive impact on the students and staff in Rdale.
The grant applications opened on
March 1 and will remain open until
April 15.

All Invited: District Orchestra Festival
Rdale will celebrate musical collaboration at the annual District Orchestra Festival at 7 p.m.
on Saturday, March 7, in the Cooper High
School gymnasium.
The festival will feature approximately 380
student musicians from across the district in various orchestras:
● Fifth Grade Orchestras
● Eighth Grade orchestras
● Ninth Grade Orchestras
● Armstrong High School Chamber
Strings and Concertino Orchestra
● Cooper High School Chamber Strings and Concertino Orchestra

Thank you!