Strategic Plan
Priority Work
Theme D1: Staff
Investment And Impact
Amy O'Hern and Brian Shreve
Team Co-Champions

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Strategic Theme

System of Continuous Improvement
Shared Leadership Model, Strategic Plan and Operational Plan
R
ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools
District Continuous Improvement
• (Re) Discover Rdale Strategic Plan
School Board Goals
District Priority Work
District Balanced Scorecard
Outcomes grounded in equity
Student-Centered
Themes
Strategic
Achievement
Academic
Personalized
Learning
Student Engagement and
Wellness
Collaboration and
Partnerships
Staff Investment and Impact
Professional Learning Department Continuous em and Development Improvement Plans (DCIPs)
Professional
Learning
School Improvement
R
Communities
(PLCs) Plans (SIPs)
ROBBINSDALE
Area
Schools

Theme D1 Charter Team Members
Co-Team Champions:
Amy O'Hern
Brian Shreve
Team members:
Anh Tran Lana Lindeman
Heather Hanson Joseph Purvis
Kelley DeLaCruz Latisha Barzey
Mike Bury

2025-2026 D1 Strategic Theme Priority:
Develop and implement systemic onboarding processes at the district and site level for all employees to improve clarity of roles, success, and retention
Enhance onboarding experience for employees in consideration of the Five Essentials for Workplace Mental Health and
Well-Being.
Develop and share strategies for building trusting and highly effective communities

Educational Assistant Onboarding
● EA Onboarding Checklist
● The checklist aligns with 120-Day probationary calendar
● Checklist provides guided support for EAs from their job offer to the 120th day of employment

Evaluation Tool
AFSCME
Custodial
Educational Assistants
Nutrition Services
Program Assistants
Principals
Program Directors
Robbinsdale Equity Allies
Teachers

Educational Assistant Onboarding

EA Onboarding Survey
The purpose of this survey was to collect staff feedback regarding the onboarding process to evaluate the effectiveness and areas of improvement needed.

EA Onboarding Survey Results
● Educational Assistants (EAs) Onboarding Survey
Shared with 64 new EAs that sent on January 5 to gauge feedback on how their onboarding was experienced
● The survey was completed by 22 EAs

Educational Assistant Responses

Educational Assistant Responses

Educational Assistant Responses

Educational Assistant Responses

Identified Needs to Improve
● Streamline onboarding process
(ex. include HR and Student Services in one day)
● Improve understanding of procedures for staff (Ex -
reporting absences)
● Special Education EAs (Review IEPs and BIPs)

Mentoring is a way to contribute to the mission of closing student achievement gaps.
How it works
SUPPORT EAs in the development of personal and professional skills and knowledge from day one and early in their
Current EAs apply to be a Peer Mentor.
careers. After training, Mentors are matched with Mentees (new EAs).
ENSURE that the EA community has a
They engage throughout the school greater voice in the workplace, more year to help the mentee navigate the opportunities to build their own school system and work towards their professional pathways, and increased goals. Mentees graduate once the abilities at assisting students who are program is completed.
striving for success.
A collaboration between
RETAIN high quality support
Rdale, NEA and RFT
professionals in the education workforce.
ELEVATE all EA careers.

Nutrition Services
Robbinsdale Nutrition Services - New Employee Onboarding
Before Day 1 Orientation and Policies HR onboarding, Uniforms, Email, Uniforms,
Parking/Kitchen Access, Code of Ethics, Dress
Code, Civil Rights Training
Day 1 Food Safety & Kitchen Handwashing, PPE, HACCP overview & logs
Kitchen tour, team introductions, USDA Offer
Vs. Serve, workplace safety
Day 2 POS, Cash & Equipment POS Training, Cash Handling, Allergy
Guidance, Customer Service, Dish Room &
Cleaning, Production Records, Serving Line
Setup
Day 3 Chemical Safety & Food Prep Chemical Handling & SDS, Recipes & Pan Sizes
Cooking Temps, Knife Skills, Serving Line
Setup, Lunch Service, Back-of-House Cleaning
Day 4 Advance Food Prep & Review Batch Cooking, Salads & Entrees, Breakfast
Service, Eval with Manager, Document
Support Plan, Manager Sign-Off

Facilities and Operations
● Rdale Custodial Training Checklist
● Rdale Facilities Onboarding Checklist

Why is this important?

Students
SOC
Radka
RDAD
UNTENS
1-V
Q-S
Debate
Coy
ER
ev
TAKE
YOURSELF
Believe
Belong
N
Become
2025-26
school year
ROBBINSDALE
R
AreaSchools
R
ROBBINSDALE
Area
Schools

Strategies for Building Trusting and
Highly Effective Communities
The following suggestions and resources are intended to support district leaders in creating and maintaining trusting and highly effective communities. This is our team's "School Community
Engagement" Document, and is posted on the Intranet for building principals to access.
Document has Activities and/or Resources for District Leaders to utilize for each topic, which are as follows:
● Mental Health & Wellbeing
● Positive Climate & Culture
● Collaboration & Team Building
● Prioritize Diversity & Inclusion
● Fostering Dialogue
● Communication

School Community Engagement, and
Diversity Inclusion best practices cont...
We concluded that best practices are as follows:

School Community Engagement, and
Diversity Inclusion best practices cont...
Best pratices will be implemented using Resource/ Activities included in "School Community
Engagement" Document. Examples: Prioritize Diversity and Inclusion Discussion and
Restorative Practices, Small/ Affinity groups/ whole Group or in the form of a Restorative Circle
One Example: Assign an article or view video during workshop week and PD days, Separate into homogenous or infinity groups of your staff with a facilitator using The guiding questions, located in School Community Engagement Document. Below are samples of articles, videos, and guiding questions. Other resources and activities can be found in the School Community Engagement document linked above.
Articles
● 7 Steps Toward Building an Equitable School Culture | Edutopia
● 6 Strategies for Successful Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Training in Schools | Edutopia
Videos
● 5 Tips For Being An Ally
● Layers of Bias, Oppression, and Privilege - Stef Jarvi
Guiding Questions
● In what ways has your own leadership been shaped by Black educators, thinkers, or community members or organizers-whether acknowledged publicly or not?
● Who experiences safety in your schools? Who is asked to sacrifice comfort for institutional order?
● Where does fear show up among staff when engaging in conversations about race-and how do you lead through that fear without centering white comfort?

Questions?