Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Approved February 23, 2015
Reviewed and Revised: April 2026
Approved:(enter date here)
704 POLICY - DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF AN INVENTORY OF FIXED
ASSETS AND A FIXED ASSET ACCOUNTING SYSTEM
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this administrative procedure policy is to provide for the development and maintenance of an inventory of the fixed assets of the school district and the establishment and maintenance of a fixed asset accounting system.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
The administrative procedure policy of the school district is that a fixed asset accounting system and an inventory of fixed assets be developed and maintained.
III. DEVELOPMENT OF INVENTORY AND ACCOUNTING SYSTEM
The superintendent or such other school official as designated by the superintendent or the school board shall be responsible for the development and maintenance of an inventory of the fixed assets of the school district and for the establishment and maintenance of a formal fixed asset accounting system.
The accounting system shall be operated in compliance with the applicable provisions of the
Uniform Financial Accounting and Reporting Standards for Minnesota School Districts (UFARS)
with a capitalization level that equals or exceeds $5,000. Group purchases for technology, furniture, or other equipment that is purchased as a per quantity that otherwise may be below the individual item threshold, the total threshold is $25,000.
In addition, the inventory shall specify the location of all continued abstracts showing the conveyance of the property to the school district; certificates of title showing title to the property in the school district; title insurance policies; surveys; and other property records relating to the real property of the school district.
IV. REPORT
The administration shall annually update the property records of the school district and provide an inventory of fixed assets as part of the annual school district audit.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 123B.02 (General Powers of Independent School
DistrictsSchool District Powers)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.09 (Boards of Independent School Districts School Board
Powers)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.51 (Schoolhouse and Sites; Uses for School and Nonschool
Purposes; Closings Access for Noncurricular Purposes)
GASB Implementation Guide 2021-1

Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 702 (Accounting)
MSBA Service Manual, Chapter 7, Education Funding