Preparing for the
Launch of the
2025-26
Academic Year
Dr. Bob McDowell
August 18, 2025
1

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Back to school communications
Print Connection: Community-Wide Mailer
We're delivering on our community's top-rated communication preference with this year's back-to-school mailer.
● Delivered to all district residents week of Aug. 11; copies also at all schools
● Based on April 2024 Morris Leatherman survey -
mailers are preferred way to receive district news
● Includes key back-to-school info and stories highlighting district impact
● Ensures access to information for residents who may not engage online
3

Back to school communications
High-Visibility Back-to-School Updates
Our digital platforms make back-to-school information easy to find, accessible, and visible across every school site.
● Website Hub: rdale.org/bts with first-day details, open house schedules, supply lists
● Built-In Translation: Content auto-translated into visitor's preferred language on website
● Prominent Placement: Homepage image rotator and seasonal icon on all district/school sites
● Social Media: Regular posts sharing reminders and key updates
4

Back to school communications
Transportation: Direct Outreach
We've been communicating transportation changes since
March, using multiple channels to keep families prepared.
● Ongoing updates about Minneapolis transportation changes since March
○ Messaging shared via Infinite Campus, district and school e-newsletters, and school phone calls
● Spring reminders about bus opt-in process
● Summer communications on bus postcard changes
● Transportation details also included in the back-to-school mailer
5

Back to school communications
Launching the First E-Newsletters
Our first district back-to-school e-newsletters help families start the year informed and connected.
● Launching this week
● Includes key updates, stories, and resources for families
● Shareable content for schools to feature in their own newsletters
● Extends our reach to families who rely on email as their primary connection
6

Parent Portal: Stay Connected
Parent Portal is the main way families access essential, real-time student information:
✅ Final grades and credits ⚠ Behavior reports
📄 Transcripts 🥪 Account balances
📅 Attendance 🚌 Bus/transportation info
💉 Health information 📘 Student schedules
7

Parent Portal: Stay Connected
Support is available!
We recognize there can be language and technology barriers.
📹 Easy-to-follow tutorials in English, Spanish, and Somali
🤝 Support through our FACE specialists and technology staff
🛠 Visit:
● Tools for Families
● Technology page
⚠ One-pager available at open-houses
8

Educational Benefits
Free meals for all. Extra savings for many
● Apply for Educational Benefits to unlock more:
○ Discounts on activity/athletic fees & other school costs
○ Potential savings on testing, internet, and more
○ Helps Rdale qualify for added state & federal funding
○ Applying is easy, confidential, and income limits are higher than you think
Learn more: rdale.org/edbenefits
9

Getting Staff Ready
Inspiring Leadership
On Aug. 12, district leaders came together to align on priorities and prepare for a successful start to the school year.
● Collaborative work to ensure shared responsibility for district priorities and systems
● Leadership development focused on growth, reflection, and connection
● Opportunities to discuss strengths, challenges, and aspirations for the year
10

Getting Staff Ready
Strengthening Foundations
Our principals came together for a day and a half of collaboration, learning, and alignment ahead of the school year.
● Aug. 14-15: Principal Building Blocks
Workshop focused on trust as the foundation for leadership
● Breakouts covered Wit & Wisdom, systems consistency, department updates, MTSS, safety/security and more
11

Getting Staff Ready
District Opener: Coming Aug. 25
One of the few times each year when our entire Rdale team comes together to connect and be inspired.
● Aug. 25, 8-9:30 a.m. at Cooper High
School
● Opportunity to connect, celebrate, and set the tone for the year ahead
● Inspiring program designed to energize and unite staff across all schools and departments
12

Back-to-School Open Houses
Elementary - Tuesday, Aug. 26 Middle Schools - Thursday, Aug. 28
● FAIR Pilgrim Lane: 4:30-6:30 p.m. ● FAIR Crystal: 6-7:30 p.m.
● Forest: 5-6:30 p.m. ● Plymouth: 4-7 p.m.
● Neill: 4-5:30 p.m. ● Robbinsdale Middle: 2-7 p.m.
● Sandburg: 5-7 p.m.
Elementary - Wednesday, Aug. 27
● Meadow Lake: 5-6:30 p.m. High Schools
● Cooper: 2-8 p.m., Tues., Aug. 26
Elementary - Thursday, Aug. 28 ● Armstrong: 2-7 p.m., Wed., Aug. 27
● Lakeview: 4-5:30 p.m. ● Highview/RVA: 3-5 p.m., Wed., Aug. 27
● Noble: 4-5:30 p.m.
● Northport: 4-6 p.m. Special Programs - Thursday, Aug. 28
● RSI: 4-6 p.m. ● Early Learning : 5-7 p.m.
● SEA: 4:30-6 p.m. ● Robbinsdale Transition Center: 3-5 p.m.
● Sonnesyn: 4-5:30 p.m.
● Zachary Lane: 4:30-6 p.m.
13

FREE Vaccine Clinics
Tuesday, Aug. 26 from 3-7 p.m.
Meadow Lake Elementary
8525 62nd Ave N, New Hope
Wednesday, Aug. 27 from 2:30-6:30 p.m.
Armstrong High School
10635 36th Ave N, Plymouth
No health insurance, ID, or appointment is needed. The clinics will offer all childhood immunizations and vaccines, including a small supply of flu, MMR,
Hepatitis B, Polio, Meningitis, and Chicken Pox.
14

First Days of School
A Strong Beginning-Staggered Starts
Our first days are designed to ease transitions, build connections, and set students up for success.
● Tuesday, Sept. 2: Grades 1-5, 6, and 9 begin
○ Transitional grades 6 and 9 start early to adjust to new schools
● Wednesday, Sept. 3: Grades 7-8 and 10-12 begin
● Kindergarten:
○ Sept. 2-3: One-on-one welcome meetings with teacher and family
○ Thursday, Sept. 4: First day for A-M; Friday, Sept. 5: First day for N-Z
○ All kindergarteners attend starting Monday, Sept. 8
15

Thank you!
16

ROBBINSDALE

Thank you!

16