DEPARTMENT
OF EDUCATION

mn

Annual Compliance Overview

Minnesota Statutes 2024, section 124D.78 requires Minnesota districts, charter schools, cooperatives, and
Tribally controlled schools with 10 or more American Indian students to have an American Indian Parent
Advisory Committee (AIPAC). Specifically, the Statutes cite that school boards and American Indian schools must provide for the maximum involvement of parents and children enrolled in education programs, programs for elementary and secondary grades, special education programs, and support services.

Districts, charter schools, cooperatives, and Tribally controlled schools with 10 or more American Indian students are required to submit annual compliance documents to the Office of American Indian Education
(OAIE) by March 1 of each year. Also known as the vote of concurrence or nonconcurrence, annual compliance is a valuable opportunity for AIPAC members to meet and discuss whether or not they concur with the educational offerings that have been extended by the district to American Indian students.

The Vote and Resolution

Parent Committees receive data from the district on whether or not the district has met the needs of American
Indian students using the goals from the program plan submitted and approved by MDE. The AIPAC votes on how the district is achieving and accountable to the goals. The AIPAC should work with administration to fill out the Program Plan Review. This vote is formally reflected on the annual compliance documents. Members of the
AIPAC present the vote and resolution to the school board.

If the vote is one of nonconcurrence, the AIPAC must provide written recommendations for improvement to the school board at the time of the presentation. The school board then has 60 days in which to respond in writing to the AIPAC recommendations. A copy of this written response must be provided to OAIE.

Completing and Submitting the Documents
The Following Items are Required When Submitting Annual Compliance

e Annual Compliance/Vote of Concurrence or Nonconcurrence document

e AIPAC Roster and District Employee Sign-In Sheet

e =American Indian Education Aid Program Plan Review

« AIPAC minutes indicating they have received data on how students are faring

When Completing the Fillable PDF Forms, Remember To:

Include the district, charter school, cooperative, Tribally controlled school name and identifying number.
Place a checkmark or X next to the applicable vote.

Include all dates as indicated.

Add all signatures as required, digital signatures are accepted.

Use the drop-down menu in the roster to select the appropriate committee , member options.

Do not modify this form in any way except to add text directly into the areas designated for narrative text or to fill a check box.

Documents must be received at MDE in Portable Document Format (PDF) format.

The District, Charter School, Cooperative, Tribally Controlled School Does Not Have an AIPAC

All educational entities with more than 10 American Indian students that do not have an AIPAC, are still required to complete this paperwork. Tribally Controlled schools may use their Schoo! Board as their AIPAC.

Place a checkmark or X next to "Does Not Have an AIPAC."

Obtain the signature of the superintendent or charter school/Tribally controlled school director and the school board chair.

Submission Deadline

Email all required items by March 1 to the Office of American Indian Education (mde.aiea@state.mn.us).

Focus Area:

Increase graduation rate

Tracking student LP's,

Support the academic achievement of
American Indian students

an increase by 10%
points. New Science f goal- grades 3-5.

Support from 70% to 80% in the ||and we have added .

postsecondary 25/26 school year. post-secondary college U e S

preparation for pupils Ivisits. '
Literacy & Math K-8 with ||Review of student

Jprogress ongoing with

areas added in ILP's in core content areas.

Make curriculum relevant to the needs, interests, and cultural heritage of American
Indian pupils

Increase the number of students attending group from 67.6% to 80%.

Staff tracking attendance

of students who attend groups and log data. Staff using materials from cultural trunks.

UeS ~ See
NOES.

Provide positive reinforcement of the self-image of
American Indian

pupils

"increase from 45% to

60% of students participating in two or more events during the school year.

Progress will be measured by attendance at site and

\district events, and
|students and families are encouraged to attend.

| URS - Seo

Noes

Develop intercultural awareness among pupils, parents, and staff

Increase from 11 to 12 in|
attendance at MIEA, adding student representative(s).

We will share our feedback on measuring intercultural awareness with a survey

after the MIEA conference.

Yes -
Sez Noles

Supplement, not supplant, state and federal educational and co-curricular programs

We work collaboratively with teaching and learning, and review state and federal budgets with AIPAC.

We review our budgets monthly and track lexpenses from events and programming throughout

jthe school year.

Wes

District Requirements Under Minnesota Statutes
Coordinator

Any district or participating school that conducts American Indian education programs with 100 or more stateidentified American Indian students are to have a coordinator dedicated to State Indian Education programming.

Minnesota Statutes 2023, section 124D.76, Dedicated American Indian Education Coordinator

Ovo, we do not have 100 or more state identified American Indian students ves, we have 100 or more state identified American Indian students
@we have a dedicated American Indian Education Coordinator
Owe do not have a dedicated American Indian Education Coordinator
Culture and Language Classes

Any district or participating school that conducts American Indian education programs with five percent or 100
or more state-identified American Indian students must provide American Indian culture and language classes.

Minnesota Statutes 2024, section 124D.71, subdivision 7

O Yes, we provide American Indian culture and language classes for all American Indian students eligible for American Indian Education Aid

O No, we do not have at least five percent; or 100 or more American Indian students

Signatures
Teri Staloch

AIPAC Chairperson Date
Cathy Estrada

Director of American Indian Education Date

For more information, please visit the Office of American Indian Education's website.

Please submit this documentation to the Office of American Indian Education (mde.aiea@state.mn.us).

Annual Compliance (Vote of Concurrence or Nonconcurrence)

Robbinsdale Area Schools

District, Charter Schoo!, Cooperative, or Tribally Controlled School Name
2025-26

School Year

American Indian Parent Advisory Committee (AIPAC) Vote

the AIPAC Issued a Vote of Concurrence
Date of Concurrent Vote 2 [ q i Xe

Date the AIPAC Presented to the School Board

Othe AIPAC Issued a Vote of Nonconcurrence

A vote of nonconcurrence requires the AIPAC to provide specific written recommendations for improvement to the school board. The school board is required to respond in writing to each recommendation within 60 days of the recommendations being put forth. The school board must provide this written response to both the AIPAC
and to the Office of American Indian Education (OAIE).

Date of Nonconcurrent Vote

Date the AIPAC Presented to the School Board

Date the Written Response from the School Board is Due

Ovthe District, Charter School, Cooperative, or Tribally Controlled School Does Not Have an AIPAC

The district or school does not yet have an AIPAC, but recognizes the need to do so in order to remain compliant with Minnesota Statutes 2024, section 124D.78. By signing below, district, charter school, cooperative, or
Tribally controlled school leadership commits to working with the Office of American Indian Education on committee formation.

Required Signatures

School Board Chairperson Date
Superintendent or Charter School/Tribally Controlled School Director Date
Teri Staloch

AIPAC Chairperson Date

American Indian Education Aid Program Plan Review

This document serves as the foundation for how your district or school is fulfilling the measurable goals of the program plan, reviewed and approved by the Office of American Indian Education (OAIE) at the Minnesota
Department of Education. This document is necessary to submit to be eligible for American Indian Education Aid next year.

Under Minnesota Statutes 2024, section 124D.81, subdivision 3, districts and schools should be identifying
American Indian students and tracking their data and progress towards positive educational experiences.

Directions

This document should be completed with the American Indian Parent Advisory Committee (AIPAC) and district staff that work primarily with American Indian students. Both the AIPAC and district staff will meaningfully and authentically collaborate to complete this document which will be uploaded with your compliance documentation. The resolution must be accompanied by Parent Advisory Committee meeting minutes that show they have been appraised by the district or school on the goals of the Indian Education Program Plan and the measurement of progress toward those goals as required by Minnesota Statutes 2024, 1240.78, subdivision
2.

Using the approved American Indian Education Aid application that was submitted, communicate how the district or school has progressed towards all the goals outlined within each narrative for areas 1-6. Data shauld be shared with the AIPAC in order to concur with the district plan. Additionally, the Self-Assessment Rubric is another useful tool for AIPACs to understand programming and to vote on concurrence.

Measurable Goals

These program details must align to Minnesota Statutes 2024, section 124D.81, subdivision 2.

Focus Area 1: Support postsecondary preparation for pupils

Focus Area 2: Support the academic achievement of American Indian students

Focus Area 3: Make curriculum relevant to the needs, interests, and cultural heritage of American Indian pupils
Focus Area 4: Provide positive reinforcement of the self-image of American Indian pupils

Focus Area 5: Develop intercultural awareness among pupils, parents, and staff

Focus Area 6: Supplement, not supplant, state and federal educational and co-curricular programs