Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Adopted: September 3, 2013
Reviewed and Revised: March 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE 611 POLICYAP: - HOME SCHOOLING
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to recognize and provide guidelines in accordance with state law for parents who wish to have their children receive education in a home school that is an alternative to an accredited public or private school.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
The Compulsory Attendance Law (Minn. Stat. Minnesota Statutes section 120A.22) provides that the parent or caregiver of a child is primarily responsible for assuring that the child acquires knowledge and skills that are essential for effective citizenship. (Minn. Stat. § 120A.22, Subd. 1)
III. CONDITIONS FOR HOME SCHOOLING
The person in charge of a home school and the school district must provide instruction and meet the requirements specified in Minn. Stat. § 120A.22.
IV. IMMUNIZATION
The parent or caregiver of a home-schooled child shall submit statements as required by Minn.
Stat. § Minnesota Statutes section 121A.15, Subds. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 12, on the appropriate
Minnesota Department of Health form, to the superintendent of the school district in which the child resides by October 1 of the first year of home schooling in Minnesota and in the year in which the student turns 7 years old. (Minn. Stat. § 121A.15, Subd. 8)
V. TEXTBOOKS, INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIAL, STANDARD TESTS
Upon formal request, as required by law, the school district will provide textbooks, (including a teacher's edition, guide, or other materials that accompany a textbook when the edition, guide, or materials are packaged physically or electronically with textbooks for student use) individualized instructional materials, or cooperative learning materials (including teacher materials that accompany pupil materials), and software or other educational technology, standardized tests and loan or provide them for use by a home schooled child as provided in Minn. Stat. § 123B.42 and
Minn. Rules Ch. 3540under state law. The school district is not required to expend any amount for this purpose that exceeds the amount it receives pursuant to Minn. Stat. §§ 123B.40-123B.48
state law for this purpose. If curriculum has both physical and electronic components, the school district will, at the request of the student or the student's parent or caregiver, make the electronic components accessible to a resident student provided that the school district does not incur more than an incidental cost as a result of providing access electronically.
accessible to a resident student provided that the school district does not incur more than an

incidental cost as a result of providing access electronically.
VI. PUPIL SUPPORT SERVICES
Upon formal request as required by law, the school district will provide pupil support services in the form of health services and counseling and guidance services to a home-schooled child as provided by Minn. Stat. § 123B.44 and Minn. Rules Ch. 3540 under state law. The school district is not required to expend an amount for any of these purposes that exceeds the amount it receives pursuant to Minn. Stat. §§ 123B.40-123B.48 for any of these purposes. for any of these purposes that exceeds the amount it receives pursuant to state law.
VII. EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
Resident pupils who receive instruction in a home school (where five or fewer students receive instruction) may fully participate in extracurricular activities of the school district on the same basis as other public school students. (Minn. Stat. §§ 123B.36, Subd. 1, and 123B.49, Subd. 4)
VIII. SHARED TIME PROGRAMS
Enrollment in class offerings of the school district.
A. A home-schooled child who is a resident of the school district may enroll in classes in the school district as a shared time pupil on the same basis as other nonpublic school students.
The provisions of this policy shall not be determinative of whether the school district allows the enrollment of any pupils on a shared-time basis.
B. The school district may limit enrollment of shared-time pupils in such classes based on the capacity of a program, class, grade level, or school building. The school board and administration retain sole discretion and control over scheduling of all classes and assignment of shared time pupils to classes.
IX. OPTIONAL COOPERATIVE ARRANGEMENTS
A. Activities
1. Minnesota State High School League sponsored activities (where six or more students receive instruction in the home school or the home school students are not residents of the school district).
A home school which is a member of the Minnesota State High School League may request that the school district enter into a cooperative sponsorship arrangement as provided in Minnesota State High School League Bylaw 403.00
bylaws. The approval of such an arrangement shall be at the discretion of the school board.
a. The home school must become a member of the Minnesota State High
School League in accordance with the rules of the Minnesota State High

School League.
b. The home school is solely responsible for any costs or fees associated with its application for and/or subsequent membership in the Minnesota State
High School League.
c. The home school is responsible for any and all costs associated with its participation in a cooperative sponsorship arrangement as well as any school district activity fees associated with the Minnesota State High
School League activity.
2. Non-Minnesota State High School League activities where six or more students receive instruction in the home school.
A home-schooled child may participate in non-Minnesota State High School
League activities offered by the school district upon application and approval from the school board to participate in the activity and the payment of any activity fees associated with the activity. However, home school students may not be charged higher activity fees than other public school students. An approval shall be granted at the discretion of the school board.
B. Transportation Services
1. The school district may provide nonpublic nonregular transportation services to a home schooled child.
2. The school board of the school district retains sole discretion and control and management of scheduling routes, establishment of the location of bus stops, manner and method of transportation, control and discipline of school children, and any other matter relating to the provision of transportation services.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 120A.22 (Compulsory Instruction)
Minn. Stat. § 120A.24 (Reporting)
Minn. Stat. § 120A.26 (Enforcement and Prosecution)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.15 (Health Standards; Immunizations; School Children)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.36 (School Boards May Require Authorized Fees)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.41 (Definitions)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.42 (Textbooks, Individual Instruction or Cooperative Learning
Material, Standard Tests)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.44 (Provision of Pupil Support Services)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.49 (Cocurricular and Extracurricular Activities)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.86 (Equal Treatment - Transportation)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.92 (Transportation Aid Entitlement)
Minn. Stat. § 124D.03 (Enrollment Options Program)
Minn. Rules Ch. 3540 (Textbooks, Individualized Instruction Materials,
Standardized Tests Nonpublic Schools)
Cross Reference: RAS Equity Policy 102.1