Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Adopted: February 4, 2013
Reviewed and Revised: April 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
705 POLICY - INVESTMENTS
This procedure applies to all investments of surplus funds of the school district, regardless of the fund accounts in which they are maintained, unless certain investments are specifically exempted by the school board through formal action. These will clarify the school district's intentions regarding the investment of the OPEB Trust.
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for the investment of school district funds.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
The policy of this school district is to comply with all state laws relating to investments and to guarantee that investments meet certain primary criteria.
III. SCOPE
This policy applies to all investments of the surplus funds of the school district, regardless of the fund accounts in which they are maintained, unless certain investments are specifically exempted by the school board through formal action.
IV. AUTHORITY; OBJECTIVES
A. The funds of the school district shall be deposited or invested in accordance with
Robbinsdale Area Schools Policy 705, and District administrative procedures. The funds of the school district shall be deposited or invested in accordance with this policy, Minnesota
Statutes, chapter 118A and any other applicable law or written administrative procedures.
B. The primary criteria for the investment of the funds of the school district, in priority order, are as follows
1. Safety and Security
Safety of principal is the first priority. The investments of the school district shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of the capital in the overall investment portfolio.
2. Liquidity
The funds shall be invested to assure that funds are available to meet immediate payment requirements, including payroll, accounts payable and debt service.

3. Return and Yield
The investments shall be managed in a manner to attain a market rate of return through various economic and budgetary cycles, while preserving and protecting the capital in the investment portfolio and taking into account constraints on risk and cash flow requirements.
II. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
A. The Executive Director of Business Services Chief Financial Officer of the school district is designated as the investment officer of the school district and is responsible for investment decisions and activities under the direction of the school board.
The investment officer shall operate the school district's investment program consistent with the District's Investment this policy and the related administrative procedures.
The investment officer may delegate certain duties to a designee or designees, but shall remain responsible for the operation of the program.
B. All officials and employees that are a part of the investment process shall act professionally and responsibly as custodians of the public trust, and shall refrain from personal business activity that could conflict with the investment program or which could reasonably cause others to question the process and integrity of the investment program. The investment officer shall avoid any transaction that could impair public confidence in the school district.
III. STANDARD OF CONDUCT
The standard of conduct regarding school district investments to be applied by the investment officer shall be the "prudent person standard." Under this standard, the investment officer shall exercise that degree of judgment and care, under the circumstances then prevailing, that persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence would exercise in the management of their own affairs, investing not for speculation and considering the probable safety of their capital as well as the probable investment return to be derived from their assets. The prudent person standard shall be applied in the context of managing the overall investment portfolio of the school district. The investment officer, acting in accordance with these procedures and exercising due diligence, judgment and care commensurate with the risk, shall not be held personally responsible for a specific security's performance or for market price changes.
Deviations from expectations shall be reported in a timely manner and appropriate actions shall be taken to control adverse developments.
IV. MONITORING AND ADJUSTING INVESTMENTS
The investment officer shall routinely monitor existing investments and the contents of the school district's investment portfolio, the available markets and the relative value of competing investment instruments.
V. INTERNAL CONTROLS
The investment officer shall establish a system of internal controls which shall be documented in writing. The internal controls shall be annually reviewed for compliance by the school district's independent auditors. The internal controls shall be designed to prevent and control losses of

public funds due to fraud, error, misrepresentation, unanticipated market changes or imprudent actions by officers, employees or others. The internal controls may include, but shall not be limited to, provisions relating to controlling collusion, separating functions, separating transaction authority from accounting and record keeping, custodial safekeeping, avoiding bearer form securities, clearly delegating authority to applicable staff members, limiting securities losses and remedial action, confirming telephone transactions in writing, supervising and controlling employee actions, minimizing the number of authorized investment officials, and documenting transactions and strategies.
VI. PERMISSIBLE INVESTMENT INSTRUMENTS
The school district may invest its available funds in those instruments specified in Minn. Stat. §§
Minnesota Statutes, section 118A.04 and 118A.05, as these sections may be amended from time to time, or any other law governing the investment of school district funds. The assets of an
Other Postemployment Benefits (OPEB) trust or trust account established pursuant to Minn. Stat.
§ Minnesota Statutes, section 471.6175 to pay postemployment benefits to employees or officers after their termination of service with a trust administrator other than the Public Employees
Retirement Association, may be invested in instruments authorized under Minn. Stat. Ch.
Minnesota Statutes, chapter 118A or § Minnesota Statutes, section 356A.06, Subd. subdivision 7.
Investments of funds in an OPEB trust account under Minnesota Statutes, section 356A.06, subdivision 7, as well as the overall asset allocation strategy for OPEB investments, shall be governed by an OPEB Investment Policy Statement (IPS) developed between the investment officer, as designated herein, and the trust administrator.
VII. PORTFOLIO DIVERSIFICATION; MATURITIES (NON-OPEB)
A. Limitations on instruments, diversification and maturity scheduling shall depend on whether the funds being invested are considered short-term or long-term funds.
All funds shall normally be considered short-term except those reserved for building construction projects or specific future projects and any unreserved funds used to provide financial-related managerial flexibility for future fiscal years.
B. The school district shall diversify its investments to avoid incurring unreasonable risks inherent in over-investing in specific instruments, or maturities.
1. No more than 5% will be invested in the securities of a single issuer.
The following investments are exempt from diversification restrictions: Securities of the U.S. Government, Money Market Mutual Funds (meeting the conditions of
SEC rule 2a-7), Local Government Investment Pools and Deposits. Due to the fluctuations in the value of the portfolio, maximum percentages for a particular issue or investment type may be exceeded at a point in time subsequent to the purchase or maturity of a particular security. Securities need not be liquidated to realign the portfolio; however, consideration should be given to this matter when future purchases are made.
2. Investment maturities shall be scheduled to coincide with projected school district cash flow needs, taking into account large routine or scheduled expenditures, as well as anticipated receipt dates of anticipated revenues. Maturities for short-term and long-term investments shall be timed according to anticipated need. Within these parameters, portfolio maturities shall be staggered to avoid undue

concentration of assets and a specific maturity sector. The maturities selected shall provide for stability of income and reasonable liquidity. Because of the inherent difficulties in accurately forecasting cash flow requirements, a portion of the portfolio should be continuously invested in readily available funds such as local government investment pools and/or money market funds to ensure that appropriate liquidity is maintained to meet ongoing obligations.
VIII. COMPETITIVE SELECTION OF INVESTMENT INSTRUMENTS
Before the school district invests any surplus funds in a specific investment instrument, a competitive bid or quotation process shall be utilized. If a specific maturity date is required, either for cash flow purposes or for conformance to maturity guidelines, quotations or bids shall be requested for instruments which meet the maturity requirement. If no specific maturity is required, a market trend analysis, which includes a yield curve, will normally be used to determine which maturities would be most advantageous. Quotations or bids shall be requested for various options with regard to term and instrument. The school district will accept the quotation or bid which provides the highest rate of return within the maturity required and within the limits of this policy. Generally, all quotations or bids will be computed on a consistent basis, i.e., a 360-day or a 365-day yield. Records will be kept of the quotations or bids received, the quotations or bids accepted and a brief explanation of the decision that was made regarding the investment. If the school district contracts with an investment advisor, bids are not required in those circumstances specified in the contract with the advisor.
IX. QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS AND BROKER-DEALERS
A. The school district shall maintain a list of the financial institutions that are approved for investment purposes.
B. Prior to completing an initial transaction with a broker, the school district shall provide to the broker a written statement of investment restrictions which shall include a provision that all future investments are to be made in accordance with Minnesota statutes governing the investment of public funds. The broker must annually acknowledge receipt of the statement of investment restrictions and agree to handle the school district's account in accordance with these restrictions. The school district may not enter into a transaction with a broker until the broker has provided this annual written agreement to the school district. The notification form to be used shall be that prepared by the State
Auditor.
X. SAFEKEEPING AND COLLATERALIZATION
A. All investment securities purchased by the school district shall be held in third-party safekeeping by an institution designated as custodial agent. The custodial agent may be any Federal Reserve Bank, any bank authorized under the laws of the United States or any state to exercise corporate trust powers, a primary reporting dealer in United States
Government securities to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or a securities broker-dealer defined in Minn. Stat. § Minnesota Statutes section 118A.06. The institution or dealer shall issue a safekeeping receipt to the school district listing the specific instrument, the name of the issuer, the name in which the security is held, the rate, the maturity, serial numbers and other distinguishing marks, and other pertinent

information.
B. Deposit-type securities shall be collateralized as required by Minn. Stat. § Minnesota
Statutes, section 118A.03 for any amount exceeding FDIC, SAIF, BIF, FCUA, or other federal deposit coverage.
C. Repurchase agreements shall be secured by the physical delivery or transfer against payment of the collateral securities to a third party or custodial agent for safekeeping.
The school district may accept a safekeeping receipt instead of requiring physical delivery or third-party safekeeping of collateral on overnight repurchase agreements of less than $1,000,000.
XI. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
A. The investment officer shall generate monthly transaction reports for management purposes. In addition, the school board shall be provided a quarterly report that shall include data on investment instruments being held as well as any narrative necessary for clarification.
B. The investment officer shall prepare and submit to the school board a quarterly investment report that summarizes investment activity. The report shall summarize changes in investment instruments and asset allocation strategy approved by the investment officer for an OPEB trust in the most recent quarter. The report shall explain the quarter's total investment return and compare the return with budgetary expectations. The report shall include an appendix that discloses all transactions during the past quarter. Copies of the report shall be provided to the school district's auditor.
C. Within ninety (90) days after the end of each fiscal year of the school district, the investment officer shall prepare and submit to the school board a comprehensive annual report on the investment program and investment activity of the school district for that fiscal year. The annual report shall include separate quarterly comparisons of return.
D. If necessary, the investment officer shall establish systems and procedures to comply with applicable federal laws and regulations governing the investment of bond proceeds and funds in a debt service account for a bond issue. The record keeping system shall be reviewed annually by the independent auditor or by another party contracted or designated to review investments for arbitrage rebate or penalty calculation purposes.
XII. DEPOSITORIES
The school board shall annually designate one or more official depositories for school district funds. The treasurer or the chief financial officer of the school district may also exercise the power of the school board to designate a depository. The school board shall be provided notice of any such designation by its next regular meeting. The school district and the depository shall each comply with the provisions of Minnesota. Statute section 118A.03 and any other applicable law, including any provisions relating to designation of a depository, qualifying institutions, depository bonds, and approval, deposit, assignment, substitution, addition and withdrawal of collateral.

XIII. ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER OF FUNDS FOR INVESTMENT
The school district may make electronic fund transfers for investments of excess funds upon compliance with Minn. Stat. § Minnesota Statutes, section 471.38.
XIV. INVESTMENTS OF THE OPEB TRUST
A. PURPOSE
The main investment objective of the OPEB Trust is to achieve long-term growth of OPEB
Trust assets by maximizing long-term rate of return on investments and minimizing risk of loss to fulfill the school district's current and long-term post- employment benefits obligations. The purpose of these procedures is to achieve the following:
1. Document investment objectives, performance expectations and investment guidelines for OPEB Trust assets.
2. Establish an appropriate investment strategy for managing all OPEB Trust assets, including an investment time horizon, risk tolerance ranges and asset allocation to provide sufficient diversification and overall return over the long-term time horizon of the OPEB Trust.
3. Establish investment guidelines to control overall risk and liquidity.
4. Establish periodic performance reporting requirements that will effectively monitor investment results and ensure that the investment policy is being followed.
5. Comply with all fiduciary, prudence, due diligence and legal requirements for
OPEB Trust assets.
B. INVESTMENT AUTHORITY
The Executive Director of Business Services oversees certain policies and procedures related to the operation and administration of the OPEB Trust. The Executive Director will have authority to implement the investment procedures and guidelines in the best interest of the OPEB Trust to best satisfy the purposes of the OPEB Trust.
In implementing these procedures, the Executive Director believes it may delegate certain functions to:
1. An investment advisor ("Advisor") to assist the Executive Director in the investment process and to maintain compliance with these investment procedures. The Advisor may assist the Executive Director in establishing investment objectives, and guidelines; selecting investment managers
("Managers") or mutual funds and other common investment vehicles as specifically approved by the Executive Director from time to time
("Investments"); reviewing Managers and Investments over time; measuring and evaluating performance; and other tasks as deemed appropriate. The Advisor may also select Investments with discretion to purchase, sell, or hold specific securities

that will be used to meet the Fund's investment objectives. Neither the Advisor nor any Manager shall ever take possession of any securities, cash or other assets of the
Trust, all of which shall be held by the custodian. The Advisor must be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
2. A custodian to maintain possession of physical securities and records of street name securities owned by the Trust, collect dividend and interest payments, redeem maturing securities, and effect receipt and delivery following purchases and sales, among other duties. The custodian may also perform regular accounting of all assets owned, purchased, or sold, as well as movement of assets into and out of the Fund.
3. A trustee, such as a bank trust department, if the Trust does not have its own
Trustees, to assume fiduciary responsibility for the administration of Trust assets; provided, however, that if the Executive Director shall have appointed an investment advisor, then any trustee appointed under this paragraph shall have no authority with respect to selection of investments.
4. Additional specialists such as attorneys, auditors, actuaries, retirement plan consultants, and others to assist the Executive Director in meeting its responsibilities and obligations to administer Trust assets prudently.
C. INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES
The investment objectives of the OPEB Trust are as follows:
1. To invest assets of the OPEB Trust in a manner consistent with the following fiduciary standards: (a) all transactions undertaken must be for the sole interest of
OPEB Trust beneficiaries, and (b) assets are to be diversified in order to minimize the impact of large losses from individual investments.
2. To provide for funding and anticipated withdrawals on a continuing basis for payment of benefits and reasonable expenses of operation of the OPEB Trust.
3. To conserve and enhance the value of OPEB Trust assets in real terms through asset appreciation and income generation, while maintaining a reasonable investment risk profile.
4. To minimize principal fluctuations over the Time Horizon (as defined below).
5. To achieve a long-term level of return commensurate with contemporary economic conditions and equal to or exceeding the investment objective set forth in this Policy Statement under the section labeled "Performance
Expectations".
D. INVESTMENT GUIDELINES
1. Time Horizon.

The OPEB Trust's investment objectives are based on a 30-year investment horizon
("Time Horizon"). Interim fluctuations should be viewed with appropriate perspective. The Executive Director has adopted a long-term investment horizon such that the risks and duration of investment losses are carefully weighed against the long-term potential for appreciation of assets.
2. Liquidity and Diversification.
In general, the OPEB Trust will hold a minimal level of cash, cash equivalent, and/or money market funds for near term OPEB Trust benefits and expenses (the
"Trust Distributions"). All remaining assets will be invested in longer-term securities and shall be diversified with the intent to minimize the risk of long-term investment losses. Consequently, the total portfolio will be constructed and maintained to provide diversification with regard to the concentration of holdings in individual issues, issuers, countries, governments or industries.
3. Asset Allocation.
The Assets will be invested in accordance with the targets for each asset class as follows to achieve an average total annual rate of return that is equal to or greater than the OPEB Trust's actuarial discount rate as described in the section titled
"Performance Expectations".
Asset Weightings
Asset Classes Range Target
Domestic Equity 10%-30% 20.0%
International Equity 0%-20% 10.0%
Other 0%-10% 0%
Fixed Income 50%-90% 70%
Cash Equivalent 0%-20% 0%
4. Rebalancing Philosophy
The asset allocation range established by the investment guidelines represents a long-term perspective. As such, rapid unanticipated market shifts or changes in economic conditions may cause the asset mix to fall outside guideline ranges.
When these divergences occur, the Advisor will rebalance, and cause the
Managers to rebalance, the assets within the specified ranges.
When the Advisor is notified of new contributions, the investment advisor will review the OPEB Trust allocation and fill the liquidity allocation first and the remaining investment allocations last.
5. Risk Tolerance

The OPEB Trust will be managed in a style that seeks to minimize principal fluctuations over the established Time Horizon and that is consistent with the
OPEB Trust's investment objectives.
6. Performance Expectations
Over the long-term, a rolling five year period, the performance objective for OPEB
Trust assets will be to achieve an average total annual rate of return that is equal to or greater than the OPEB Trust's actuarial discount rate. Additionally, it is expected that the annual rate of return on OPEB Trust assets will be commensurate with the then prevailing investment environment. Measurement of this return expectation will be judged by reviewing returns in the context of industry standard benchmarks, peer universe comparisons for individual OPEB Trust investments and blended benchmark comparisons for the OPEB Trust in its entirety.
7. Rebalancing Philosophy
The asset allocation range established by the investment guidelines represents a long-term perspective. As such, rapid unanticipated market shifts or changes in economic conditions may cause the asset mix to fall outside guideline ranges.
When these divergences occur, the Advisor will rebalance, and cause the
Managers to rebalance, the assets within the specified ranges.
When the Advisor is notified of new contributions, the investment advisor will review the OPEB Trust allocation and fill the liquidity allocation first and the remaining investment allocations last.
8. Risk Tolerance
The OPEB Trust will be managed in a style that seeks to minimize principal fluctuations over the established Time Horizon and that is consistent with the
OPEB Trust's investment objectives.
9. Performance Expectations
Over the long-term, a rolling five year period, the performance objective for OPEB
Trust assets will be to achieve an average total annual rate of return that is equal to or greater than the OPEB Trust's actuarial discount rate. Additionally, it is expected that the annual rate of return on OPEB Trust assets will be commensurate with the then prevailing investment environment. Measurement of this return expectation will be judged by reviewing returns in the context of industry standard benchmarks, peer universe comparisons for individual OPEB Trust investments and blended benchmark comparisons for the OPEB Trust in its entirety.
E. SELECTION OF INVESTMENT MANAGERS
The Advisor shall prudently select appropriate Managers to invest the assets of the OPEB
Trust. Managers must meet the following criteria:

1. The Manager must be a bank, insurance company, or investment adviser as defined by the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
2. The Manager must provide historical quarterly performance data compliant with
®
Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS ), Securities and Exchange
Commission ("SEC"), and Financial Industry Regulatory Agency ("FINRA")
rules, as appropriate.
3. The Manager must provide detailed information on history of the firm, key personnel, support personnel, key clients, and fee schedule (including most favored nation clauses). This information can be a copy of a recent Request for
Proposal ("RFP") completed by the Manager or regulatory disclosure.
4. The Manager must clearly articulate the investment strategy that will be followed and document that the strategy has been successfully adhered to over time.
5. The Manager must confirm receipt, understanding and adherence to this Policy
Statement and any investment specific policies by signing a consent form provided to the Manager prior to investment of OPEB Trust assets.
F. GUIDELINES FOR PORTFOLIO HOLDINGS
Every effort shall be made, to the extent practical, prudent and appropriate, to select
Investments that have investment objectives and policies that are consistent with this
Policy Statement (as outlined in following sub-sections of the "Guidelines for
Portfolio Holdings"). However, given the nature of the Investments, it is recognized that there may be deviations between this Policy Statement and the objectives of these
Investments. The following limitations are placed on Managers' Portfolios:
1. Domestic Equities
No more than 5% of the Manager's total equity portfolio valued at market may be invested in the equity of any one corporation, ownership of the shares of one company shall not exceed 2% of those outstanding, and not more than 25% of equity valued at market may be held in any one sector, as defined by the Industry
Classification Benchmark universe database. Other than these constraints, there are no quantitative guidelines as to issues, industry or individual security diversification. However, prudent diversification standards should be developed and maintained by the Manager.
2. Fixed Income
Fixed income investments shall be high quality with a preponderance of the investments in (1) U.S. Treasury, federal agencies and U.S. Government guaranteed obligations, (2) investment grade corporate issues including convertibles, and (3)
sovereign debt of foreign countries.
Fixed income securities of any one issuer shall not exceed 5% of a total bond portfolio at time of purchase. The 5% limitation does not apply to issues of the

U.S. Treasury or other Federal Agencies. The overall rating of the fixed income assets shall be at least "A", based on the rating of one of the three rating agencies
(Fitch, Moody's or Standard & Poor's). In cases where the yield spread adequately compensates for additional risk, high yield securities (BB+ or lower), can be purchased or held up to a maximum of 20% of total market value of fixed income securities of the OPEB Trust.
3. Cash Equivalents
Cash equivalents shall be held in funds complying with Rule 2(a)-7 of the
Investment Company Act of 1940.
4. Prohibited Investments
Except for purchase within authorized Investments, securities having the following characteristics, are not authorized and shall not be purchased: letter stock and other unregistered securities, commodities or commodity contracts where the OPEB
Trust is a counterparty, short sales, margin transactions, private placements (with the exception of Rule 144A securities), or venture capital funds, private equity, or hedge funds. Further, derivatives, options, futures, or any other investment for the sole purpose of direct portfolio leveraging are prohibited. Direct ownership of real estate, natural resource properties such as oil, gas or timber and the purchase of collectibles is also prohibited.
5. Safekeeping
All assets of the OPEB Trust shall be held by a custodian approved by the
Committee and in consultation with the Advisor for safekeeping of OPEB Trust assets. The custodian shall produce statements on a monthly basis, listing the name and value of all assets held, and the dates and nature of all transactions in accordance with the terms in the OPEB Trust Agreement. Investments of the
OPEB Trust not held as Liquidity Assets or Investment Assets shall, at all times, be invested in interest-bearing accounts.
Investments and portfolio securities may not be loaned.
G. CONTROL PROCEDURES
1. Review of Investment Objectives
The Advisor shall review annually and report to the Executive Director the appropriateness of the Investment Guidelines for the OPEB Trust for achieving the OPEB Trust's stated objectives. It is not expected that the Investment
Guidelines will change frequently. In particular, short-term changes in the financial markets should not require an adjustment in the guidelines.
2. Review of Investment Performance
The Advisor shall report on a quarterly basis to the Executive Director and the
Financial Advisory Council to review the investment performance of the OPEB

Trust. In addition, the Advisor will be responsible for keeping the Committee advised of any material change in investment strategy, Managers, and other pertinent information potentially affecting performance of the OPEB Trust.
The Advisor shall compare the investment results on a quarterly basis to appropriate peer universe benchmarks, as well as market indices in both equity and fixed income markets. Examples of benchmarks and indexes that will be used include the S&P 500 Index for large cap equities, Russell 2000 Index for small cap equities, MSCI Europe, Australasia, and Far East (EAFE) Index for international equities, Barclays Capital Aggregate Bond Index for fixed income securities, and the U.S. 91 Day T-bill for cash equivalents.
3. Voting of Proxies
The Advisor will vote the shares of the Investments, and Managers will vote securities in the respective portfolio managed by such Managers, consistently with its proxy policy and in the best interest of the OPEB Trust.
XVI. ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER OF FUNDS FOR INVESTMENT
The school district may make electronic fund transfers for investments of excess funds upon compliance with Minn. Stat. § Minnesota Statutes section 471.38.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 118A.01 (Definitions Public Funds; Depositories and Investments)
Minn.Stat.§118A.02 (Depositories; Investing; Sales, Proceeds,
ImmunityAuthorization for Deposit and Investment)
Minn. Stat. § 118A.03 (When and What Collateral RequiredDepositories and
Collateral)
Minn. Stat. § 118A.04 (Investments)
Minn. Stat. § 118A.05 (Contracts and Agreements)
Minn. Stat. § 118A.06 (Delivery and Safekeeping; Acknowledgements)
Minn. Stat. § 356A.06, Subd. 7 (Investments; Additional DutiesAuthorized
Investment Securities)
Minn. Stat. § 471.38 (Claims)
Minn. Stat. § 471.6175 (Trust for Postemployment Benefits)
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 703 (Annual Audit)
MSBA Service Manual, Chapter 7, Education Funding
Minnesota Legal Compliance Audit Guide for School Districts Prepared by the
Office of the State Auditor