Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Nov. 17, 2025

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Fall Music Festival at Orchestra Hall
Last Monday, 445 students performed at Orchestra Hall under guest conductor Manny Laureano in a concert themed Light!
● Choir, band, and orchestra ensembles
● Featured Cooper and
Armstrong choirs, wind ensembles, symphony orchestras
● Included the All-District
Elementary Choir

Fantastic Fall Music Festival

Midwestern ACDA Honor Choir
Two Plymouth Middle School students were selected for the Midwestern
Region ACDA Grades 6-9 Soprano/Alto
Honor Choir.
● Seventh grader Violet Breuch and sixth grader Cecilia Menchaca selected
● Representing Robbinsdale in a regional ensemble
● Performances held Feb. 28, 2026, in Milwaukee

Ruby Bridges Walk to School Day
Last Friday, Meadow Lake students and staff participated in activities honoring Ruby Bridges and promoting inclusion, courage, and reflection.
● Schoolwide participation in the national Ruby
Bridges Walk to School Day
● Classroom activities focused on courage, kindness, and growth mindset
● Purple-out day and read-aloud to honor Ruby's legacy
● Grade-level walks around the school to reflect on activism and inclusion

Ruby Bridges Walk to School Day

Kindergarten Enrollment Fair
Purpose: Showcase Rdale's exceptional learning opportunities and welcoming community to attract spoon-to-be kindergarten families.
When: 10 a.m. to noon, Saturday, Nov. 22,
2025, at FAIR School Crystal
Community Engagement: Families will have the chance to connect with school leaders, and staff, while enjoying fun activities and valuable resources.

District Round Dance on Nov. 21
Our American Indian Education program will host the annual
Round Dance on Friday, Nov. 21, in celebration of Native American
Heritage Month.
● Held from 5:30-8 p.m. at
Robbinsdale Middle School
● Community cultural event featuring song, dance, and connection
● Partnership with Edina
Public Schools for this year's celebration

Ready, Set, Smile at Neill
Rep. Freiberg visited Neill
Elementary last week during the
Ready, Set, Smile dental clinic, highlighting the impact of this growing partnership.
● Showcased Full-Service
Community Schools collaboration
● Ready, Set, Smile services expanding significantly
● 327 students served across six schools this year

Timberwolves' Crunch visits Sonnesyn
Crunch from the Minnesota
Timberwolves visited Sonnesyn on Nov.
12 to promote reading with students in grades K-2.
● Read his favorite story to students
● Encouraged a love of books and literacy
● Students received a free book, autographed card, and
Timberwolves goodie bag

Adventure Club Presenters at MCEA
Two Adventure Club supervisors presented at the MCEA state conference on building strong relationships with students and families.
● Sheng Xiong (RSI) shared an engagement-tracking tool
● Melissa Hanson (SEA) highlighted intentional family partnerships
● Showcased strategies used in
Adventure Club and Early
Adventures

Thank You

a

rope Fantastic Fall Music Festival

uz

"ee Ruby Bridges Walk to School Day

Thank You

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools