RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE PAYMENT OF SPECIFIC STATEMENTS IN
ADVANCE OF BOARD APPROVAL
Director Basset

(waived reading) introduced the following resolution and move its adoption:

BE IT RESOLVED by the School Board of Independent School District No. 281, Robbinsdale,
Minnesota, as follows:

It is recommended that and consistent with Minnesota Statute 123B.11, 123B.02 and 471.38, the Chief
Financial Officer be hereby vested with the authority and responsibility to make the following payment in advance of board approval.

Payment or expense claims against the school district for:

Utility bills

Contracted transportation invoices

Registration and travel expenses

Employee group insurance payments

Employee retirement plan payments

Payments necessary to be eligible for discount privileges
Postage meter and bulk mailing payments

Officials, referees and judges fees

Special program speakers fees, consulting fees and contracted personnel service fees
10. Tuition payments for resident students

11. Payments necessary to meet the 35-day statute

CHONDA RWNH

The Chief Financial Officer is hereby vested with the authority and responsibility to initiate electronic fund transfers including payment of interest, payroll bank account transfers, state and federal tax withholding, state sales tax, electronic fund transfer payments covering investments, bond principal and interest, tax anticipation certificate principal and interest, loan principal and interest fiscal agent service charges.

1. The disbursing bank shall keep on file a certified copy of this authorization which allows electronic fund transfers.
2. The initiator of the electronic transfer shall be identified for each transaction.
3. The initiator shall document the request and obtain approval from the Chief Financial Officer.
4. A written confirmation of the transaction shall be made no later than one business day after the transaction and shall be used to amped the transaction.
Divect@ar-
Motion was seconded by Bryn te: son , and upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Passer, Bow man, Byyntre: Son, Evans 8: Bcc er,
Hien brand , Long, wiutol?
And the following voted against the same: None:

Whereupon said resolution was declared duly adopted,

le By:
Clerk

ae

Ns; L206 /- 4 ~ 202%

Date Date