Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Adopted: June 10, 2013
Reviewed and Revised: January 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
528AP POLICY - STUDENT, PARENTAL, FAMILY, AND MARITAL STATUS
NONDISCRIMINATION
I. PURPOSE
Students are protected from discrimination on the basis of sex and marital status pursuant to Title
IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and the Minnesota Human Rights Act. This includes discrimination on the basis of pregnancy. The purpose of this school district administrative procedure is to provide equal educational opportunity for all students and to prohibit discrimination on the grounds of sex, parental, family, or marital status.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
A. The school district provides equal educational opportunity for all students, and will not apply any rule concerning a student's actual or potential parental, family, or marital status which treats students differently on the basis of sex.
B. The school district will not discriminate against any student, or exclude any student from its education program or activity, including any class or extracurricular activity, on the basis of such students' pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy or recovery therefrom, unless the student requests voluntarily to participate in a separate portion of the program or activity of the recipient.
C. The school district may require such a student to obtain the certification of a physician that the student is physically and emotionally able to continue participation in the normal education program or activity so long as such a certification is required of all students for other physical or emotional conditions requiring the attention of a physician.
D. The school district will ensure that any separate and voluntary instructional program is comparable to that offered to non-pregnant students.
E. It is the responsibility of every school district employee to comply with this administrative procedure.
F. The school board has designated the Executive Director of Human Resources as its Title
IX coordinator. This employee coordinates the school district's efforts to comply with and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX.
G. Any student, parent or guardian having questions regarding the application of Title IX and its regulations and/or this policy should discuss them with the Title IX coordinator.
Questions relating solely to Title IX and its regulations may be referred to the Assistant

Secretary for Civil Rights of the United States Department of Education.
H. Any reports of unlawful discrimination under this administrative procedure will be handled, investigated and acted upon in the manner specified in Policy 522. - Student Sex
Nondiscrimination.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. Ch. 363A (Minnesota Human Rights Act)
20 U.S.C. §§ 1681-1688 (Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972)
34 C.F.R. Part 106 (Implementing Regulations of Title IX)
Cross References: Policy 102 (Equal Educational Opportunity)
Policy 413 (Harassment and Violence)
Policy 522 (Student Sex Nondiscrimination) Title IX Sex Nondiscrimination
Policy, Grievance Procedure and Process
RAS Policy 102.1 - Equity