Strategic Plan
Priority Work
Theme B2:
Strengthen School Safety
Practices
Team Champions:
Maureen Mullen, Hayley Heidelberg, Bo Powell

Strategic Plan

Strategic Plan

Strategic Theme B2
Strengthen practices around student, staff and school safety
-

Theme B2 Charter Team Members
Team Champions:
Maureen Mullen (ESC)
Hayley Heidelberg (ESC)
Bo Powell (ESC)
Team members:
Noelle Nelson (RMS)
Ned Nelson (CHS)
Michelle Azure (MLE)
Jennifer Holtgrewe (FAIR C)
Jay Hancock (SMS)

2025-2026 B2 Strategic Theme Priorities:
1. Clearly define physical safety protocols and emergency response steps for immediate and sustained safety.
2. Develop and embed consistent written protocols, including hazard specific response guidelines, incident command procedures, and after-action reviews to ensure trust, accountability, and preparedness.
3. Develop and implement a SY 26/27 communication and rollout plan for the new Emergency Management Plan
4. Develop and implement staff trainings on use of the
Emergency Management Plan

2025-2026 B2 Strategic Theme Priorities:
1. Clearly define physical safety protocols and emergency response steps for immediate and sustained safety.
We are
2. Develop and embed consistent written protocols, here including hazard specific response guidelines, incident command procedures, and after-action reviews to ensure trust, accountability, and preparedness.
3. Develop and implement a SY 26/27 communication and rollout plan for the new Emergency Management Plan
4. Develop and implement staff trainings on use of the
Emergency Management Plan

Priorities 1 and 2 - Work Plan
Review, revise, publish
● Emergency Management Plan
○ Hazard Specific Response Guidelines
● Administrator Guide to Responding to Incidents
● School Specific Emergency Procedures
Standardize use district-wide, with monthly review by the
District Emergency Management Team
● Emergency Management Plan
● After Action Reports
● Debriefing Protocols

Priorities 1 and 2 - Work In Progress
Revisions in progress
District Emergency Management Plan
● Emergency Response
○ 28 Hazard Specific Response Guidelines
● Incident Command
● Family Reunification & Release
● Crisis Prevention & Intervention

Priorities 1 and 2 - Work In Progress
Revisions in progress
Administrator Guide for Responding to Incidents
● Crisis Response
● Behavior Incident Response
● Death of Student/Staff
● Administrative Actions/Follow-up

Priorities 1 and 2 - Work In Progress
Revisions in progress
School Specific Emergency Procedures
● Building Emergency Management Team (BEMT) Guidance
● Emergency Contacts
● Evacuation Assembly Areas
● Off-site Evacuation Locations
● Assisted Evacuation Plans for Individuals Needing Assistance
● Student and Staff Accountability
● Medical Emergencies & Cardiac Emergency Response Plans
● Communications Procedures

Implementation Metrics of Theme B2:
Building Drills
The Safety and Security Team directly supports site staff to achieve required emergency response drills using Raptor Emergency
Management for accountable, consistent, and practiced standard response protocols
● SY '25-'26 Goals
○ 100% of schools have scheduled all required safety drills in Raptor
○ 100% of schools are on track with drill completions
● SY '26-'27 Goals
○ 1st Fire Drills held within 10-calendar days of first day of school
○ All drills conducted using new EMP Drill Guidelines with full staff and student accountability

Implementation Metrics of Theme B2:
Monthly District Emergency Management Team Meetings
● Understand the District's current state of safety and security preparedness
● Review emergency response plans and protocols
● Identify current safety concerns and develop solutions
● Review After Action Reports (AAR) for lessons learned
● Identify response and recovery support needs
● Identify training and programmatic needs and make recommendations
● Review responsibilities to ensure alignment with Incident
Command System (ICS) framework

Implementation Metrics of Theme B2:
Building Emergency Management Team (BEMT) Meetings
● SY '25-'26 Goal
○ 95% of schools held at least one BEMT meeting in Quarter 2, up from 60% in Quarter 1
● SY '26-'27 Goal
○ The District Emergency Management Team (DEMT) will direct each BEMT to hold monthly meetings, supported by
DEMT- provided agenda topics and resources to ensure consistency and continuous improvement.

Outcome Metrics of Theme B2:
Measure Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4
Building Drills
17 of 20
20 of 20 schools 18 of 20 schools
(Raptor)
schools completed and completed and completed or scheduled drills scheduled drills scheduled drills
Perception Data:
Staff Survey
Survey issued in x x x
Knowledge of early May
Protocols
District
3 of 3 DEMT
Emergency
1 of 1 DEMT 1 of 2 DEMT 1 of 2 DEMT
meetings
Management meeting held meetings held meetings held scheduled
Team Meetings
Building
75% of schools
Emergency
60% of schools 95% of schools 95% of schools have at least 1
Management had at least had at least had at least BEMT meeting
Team Meetings
1 BEMT meeting 1 BEMT meeting 1 BEMT meeting scheduled as of 3/17/26

2025-2026 B2 Strategic Theme Priorities:
1. Clearly define physical safety protocols and emergency response steps for immediate and sustained safety.
2. Develop and embed consistent written protocols, including hazard specific response guidelines, incident command procedures, and after-action reviews to ensure trust, accountability, and preparedness.
3. Implement SY 26/27 training and rollout plan for the updated Emergency Management Plan
What's
4. Update and implement staff trainings on coming use of the Emergency Management Plan

Priorities 3 and 4 - for SY 26/27
Workshop Week Safety Training for All Staff
All staff presentation and onsite training
BEMT Meeting Support & Response Guidelines
Agenda topics
Drill protocols and guidelines
Printed and digital Emergency Management Plans

Next Steps:
● Complete the review, revision, and publication of the updated District Emergency Management Plan and associated documents
● Complete the SY 26/27 communication and rollout planning for the new Emergency Management Plan
● Develop and conduct SY 26/27 staff trainings
● Provide continuing support of the BEMT and DEMT
monthly meetings

Questions?