To: School Board and Superintendent Staloch
From: Policy Committee
Date: September 3, 2025
Re: Policy Committee Report
The Policy Committee convened on Aug 27th, 2025 to continue its work on reviewing and advancing policies. The committee remains committed to ensuring that policies are updated.
As part of this process, the Cabinet is actively reviewing and providing input and engaging other relevant stakeholders as appropriate.
We appreciate the dedication of all involved in this critical work and will continue to provide updates as policies progress through review and approval.
POLICY FOR SECOND READ
Policy Number Leg.
Policy Change Description of Change and Title Change
533 Policy - Wellness Y Bringing back for second ● Updated with consist read language around parents/guardians/
caregivers
POLICIES FOR FIRST READ
Mandated
Policy Number
Annual Policy Change Description of Change and Title
Review
410 Policy: Family and Y Combined AP and Policy ● Added II. General
Medical Leave Statement of Policy
● Added Policy 102.1
Equity
413 Policy: Y Combined AP and Policy ● Section D: Protected
Harassment and Added Reference Classification
Violence Definitions: added letter
D.
● Added Policy 102.1
Equity
415 Policy: Mandated Y Combined AP and Policy ● Added II. General
Reporting of Statement of Policy
Maltreatment of
Vulnerable Adults
506 Policy: Student Y Added References ● Added Policy 102.1

Discipline Equity
● Added AP 506.1
514 Policy: Bullying Y Added Language ● Section V: School
Prohibition Added Reference District Action Letter D
and E added language.
● Section VIII: Notice added letter H
● Added Policy 102.1
Equity Policy
● Added Policy 403 AP
Discipline, Suspension and Dismissal of School
District Employee
524 Policy: Internet Y Added Reference ● Added Policy 102.1
Acceptable Use and Equity
Safety
722 Policy: Data Combined AP and Policy ● Added III: Definitions
Practices and Data Added References. A-O.
Subject Requests ● Added VI: Data By An
Individual request A-J
● Added VII: Requests By
An Individual Subject Of
The Data
● Added VIII: Costs added
C. Data Belonging to an
Individual Subject
● Added Legal References
In Progress
501 Policy - School Y Added verbiage Active shooter incidents
Weapons Going to a added future Study Session