Summary Minutes of Study Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed: February 2, 2026

A Study Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, January 20, 2026 at
9:p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the offi ce and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:

https: rg/di r/sch under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by 'the School Board.

Director(s) present: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Welcome and Introductions

Purpose and Agenda
Review of the Board of Education 2025-26 Agenda and Working Document, highlighting the sections to be covered this

evening.

District Governance and Policy (None for this evening.)

Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction (None for this evening.)
Board Governance (None for this evening.)

Superintendent Relations
A. Superintendent Mid-Year Goal Progress Report
Dr. Staloch provided a brief presentation regarding progress made at the mid-year mark of the year on her goals.
B. CLOSED SESSION, pursuant to MN Statute 13D.05, Subdivision 3(a) for Superintendent Mid-Year Goal Progress
Report
MOTION: Brynteson moved to recess to the closed session, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.
Meeting recessed at 10:00 p.m.
Meeting reconvened at 10:37 p.m.

Community Engagement (None for this evening.)

Information Items (None for this evening.)

Future Agenda Topics

Board decided to set a date for their own self-evaluation discussion. Chair Evans-Becker will work with MSBA to get the process started.

Study Session concluded at 10:40 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board