Special Education Funding
School districts receive state aid and some federal aid to pay for special education services. If these funds are insufficient to pay for the costs of the programs, districts must rely on their other undesignated general fund revenue.
(Minn. Stat. §§ 125A.75-125A.79)
Special Education Revenue
Minnesota's special education formula is a multistep hybrid formula. The formula combines a costreimbursement formula with a modified "census style" of funding, provides a floor of funding based on fiscal year 2016 funding amounts, and authorizes serving school districts and charter schools to bill a portion of their unfunded special education costs attributable to nonresident students back to the student's resident school district. The partial costs are based on the salaries paid to special education teachers and other essential personnel. The census amounts are set in statute and provide differing levels of reimbursement based on the district's characteristics and the students'
category of disability. The formula calculates an initial aid amount, an excess cost amount, makes tuition adjustments for students open enrolling in other school districts and charter schools, puts some limits on this amount of special education revenue, and then adds a cross-subsidy aid amount for a statutorily specified percentage of the remaining unfunded special education costs.
Initial Aid. A district's initial special education revenue is the sum of its special education- related pupil transportation services, and the least of:
1) 50 percent of the district's nonfederal expenditures for the previous year, including fringe benefits;
2) 62 percent of the district's special education expenditures under the old special education formulas, which excluded fringe benefits; or
3) 56 percent of the sum of:
a) The district's average daily membership times the sum of:
i. $460; ii. $405 times the district's percent eligible for free and reduced-price meals; and iii. .008 times the district's average daily membership; b) $13,300 times the count of students with autism spectrum disorder, developmental delay, or severely multiply impaired; c) $19,100 times the count of students who are deaf/hard of hearing or have an emotional behavioral disorder; and

Special Education Funding d) $25,200 times the count of students who are developmentally cognitive mild- moderate, developmentally cognitive severe-profound, physically impaired, visually impaired, or deafblind.
Excess Cost Aid. Excess cost aid provides additional special education funding for districts that have extremely high levels of unreimbursed special education expenses. A district's special education excess cost aid equals the greater of: (1) 56 percent of the difference between the district's unreimbursed nonfederal special education expenditures and 7.0 percent of the district's general revenue; or (2) 62 percent of the difference between the district's unreimbursed "old formula" special education expenditures and 2.5 percent of the district's general revenue.
Tuition adjustments. State and federal special education revenue amounts are insufficient to cover school district special education costs. Under Minnesota's special education formulas, charter schools and school districts charge back to the student's resident school district a portion of the unreimbursed special education costs. This amount is called the "tuition adjustment." For fiscal year 2021 and later, 80 percent of the unreimbursed special education costs are billed back to the resident district. For charter schools only, for fiscal years 2021 and later, the state will pay an additional 10 percentage points of the charter school's unreimbursed costs (bringing to 90 percent, the total amount of the charter school's unreimbursed special education costs that are ultimately reimbursed).
Special Education Aid. A district's special education aid is the sum of its initial aid, excess cost aid, and tuition adjustments all constrained by the special education limits. This amount is then increased by the amount of the district's cross subsidy aid.
Special Education Aid Limits. A district's initial special education aid, excess cost aid, and tuition adjustments are subject to several caps and floors. First, for fiscal year 2025, the special education aid cannot exceed the greater of: (1) 56 percent of the district's nonfederal special education expenditures plus 100 percent of its special education transportation costs plus its current year tuition adjustment; or (2) the sum of its 2016 special education revenue adjusted for changes in enrollment and adjusted upward by 4.6 percent per year for fiscal years 2016 to 2020, by 4.4
percent for fiscal year 2021, 4.2 percent for fiscal year 2022, 4.0 percent for fiscal year 2023, 3.8
percent for fiscal year 2024, and 3.6 percent for fiscal year 2025, plus $220 times its average daily membership. Further, the district's special education aid cannot be less than the lesser of: (1) 90
percent of its nonfederal special education expenditures, plus 100 percent of its special education transportation costs, plus its current year tuition adjustment; or (2) its 2016 special education revenue adjusted for changes in enrollment and adjusted by 4.6 percent for fiscal years 2016 to
2020, and decreasing by 0.2 percent for each subsequent fiscal year.
This has the effect of pulling school districts more consistently toward 56 percent of each district's nonfederal special education expenditures (excluding special education pupil transportation costs which are 100 percent funded). This aid amount is prior to special education cross subsidy aid.

Special Education Funding
Cross Subsidy Aid. A school district's special education cross subsidy is the difference between the amount the district spends on qualifying special education services and the sum of the state and federal special education revenue and the general education revenue generated by special education students served primarily outside of the regular classroom for that year. The cross subsidy aid is based on the previous year's cross subsidy. A school district's special education cross subsidy aid equals 6.43 percent of its cross subsidy for fiscal year 2023, 44 percent of the cross subsidy for fiscal years 2024 to 2026, and 50 percent of the cross subsidy for fiscal years 2027
and later.
(Minn. Stat. §§ 125A.76-125A.79)