Summary Minutes of Study (Work) Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Reviewed: September 3, 2025

A Study Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, August 18, 2025 at
7:35 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Welcome and Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Purpose and Agenda

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Dr. Staloch reviewed the Board of Education Agenda and Working Document, highlighting the topics for discussion this evening

District Governance and Policy

e Finalize Board Committee Conversation
Discussion regarding the proposed dissolution of the Ad Hoc Safety and Security and Transportation and Capital
Infrastructure Commitees occurred, with Bassett proposing the committees come back with a summary of work completed, apply a sunset date to them, and honor the resolutions and work done.

e Meals/Break for Board Meetings
Board agreed to a lighter meal for each meeting.

e Discussion: 501 Policy - School Weapons
Postponed to a future Study Session.

e Additional School Board Study Sessions
Postponed to a future Study Session.

Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction

e Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Project Partners
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer and representatives from Nexus Solutions, LLC presented an agreement to partner for 2025-26 on LTFM projects, with the intent to bring it to action at the September 23, 2025 Business Meeting

e City of Crystal/Forest Elementary Playground Agreement for Donation
Ms. Hoheisel reviewed the proposed design and budget for a project agreement with Crystal and RAS regarding the
Forest play area. An agreement is being drafted between the parties, to be moved to action at the September 23,
2025 Business Meeting.

e Discussion: e-Learning/Blended Learning Plan
Dr. Bob McDowell, Assistant Superintendent reviewed the 2025-26 e-Learning/Blended Learning Plan, with the intent to bring it to action at the September 23, 2025 Business Meeting.

Board Governance
Discussion: Bylaws, Section V. Call and Conduct of Meeting, B. Call of Special Meeting

Postponed to a future Study Session

Superintendent Relations
Superintendent Goals
Dr. Staloch presented her proposed goals to the Board for consideration. It was determined that an academic goal needs

to be added. This topic will return in a Special Study Session following the Business Meeting on September 3, 2025 to finalize the goals, and will be facilitated by Barb Dorn from the Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA).

Community Engagement
Reimagine Rdale Vision 2030 Update
Update not received due to time constraints.

Information Items
None.

Future Agenda Topics

Continuing Professional Development
No discussion due to time constraints.
Study Session concluded at 11:12 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board