Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Nov. 3, 2025

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Honors to Sonnesyn Elementary
Sonnesyn was recently announced as the recipient of the 2025 Minnesota's Future
Award for Excellence in Literacy Instruction.
This is a statewide honor recognizing schools that are closing achievement gaps and proving that every child can succeed through evidence-based instruction.
● Sonnesyn was highlighted for its remarkable progress in early literacy, including a 10 percent increase in third-grade reading proficiency since
2022-23
● The recognition came with a $50,000
award from the Minnesota Business
Partnership.

Ongoing Recognition for The Quill
Continuing its award-winning legacy, The
Quill, the student newspaper of Cooper, has won an All-State Gold Award for the nine issues released during the 2024-25
school year from the Minnesota High
School Press Association.
● Four individual student staff members also won state awards, ranging from second to fifth place in various categories.
● This is the second consecutive year that the staff of The Quill has received this award.

Class AAA Mr. Soccer
Capping off a tremendous soccer career at
Armstrong, Moses Kamara was named Mr.
Soccer for Class AAA by the Minnesota State
High School Soccer Coaches Association.
● He was also recently named to the
All-Minnesota boys soccer team, a list of the top 25 players in the state, by the
Star Tribune for the second year in a row.
● Kamara recorded 26 goals and four assists this season, totaling 71 goals in his four years on the team.

Tribal Nations Education Committee
● One of three metro districts invited to present at TNEC's inaugural professional development event.
● Recognized for authentic partnership with American Indian students, families, and leaders.
● Shared work on the American Indian
Strategic Plan, Reimagine Rdale, and
AIPAC collaboration.
● Commended for modeling community-centered leadership across the metro.

Region 6AA AD of the Year
Armstrong Activities Director Larry Tate has been named the 2025 Region 6AA
Activities Administrator (AD) of the Year by the Minnesota Interscholastic Activities
Administrators Association.
● He is in his sixth year serving as the AD
at AHS and is in his 20th year working for Rdale.
● He is eligible to be selected as the
Class AA AD of the Year in the spring.

Nov. 3-4 Professional Development
Staff across the district participated in a variety of professional development today, including:
● Catalyst strategy work to strengthen instructional alignment
● Elementary Wit & Wisdom training to deepen literacy practices
● Much more!
Learning continues tomorrow with additional sessions focused on instructional excellence and student engagement.

Kindergarten Enrollment Fair
Purpose: Showcase Rdale's exceptional learning opportunities and welcoming community to attract spoon-to-be kindergarten families.
When: 10 a.m. to noon, Saturday, Nov. 22,
2025, at FAIR School Crystal
Community Engagement: Families will have the chance to connect with school leaders, and staff, while enjoying fun activities and valuable resources.

Thank You

Thank You

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools