Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Approved: December 5, 2016
Reviewed and Revised: November 19, 2025
Approved: (insert date)
401 POLICY - EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to provide equal employment opportunity for all applicants for school district employment and for all school district employees.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. The policy of the school district is to provide equal employment opportunity for all applicants and employees. The school district does not unlawfully discriminate on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, gender, marital status, status with regard to public assistance, disability, sexual orientation, age, family care leave status, or veteran status. The school district also makes reasonable accommodations for disabled employees.
B. The school district prohibits the harassment of any individual for any of the categories listed above. For information about the types of conduct that constitute impermissible harassment and the school district's internal procedures for addressing complaints of harassment, please refer to the school district's policy on harassment and violence.
C. This policy applies to all areas of employment including hiring, discharge, promotion, compensation, facilities, or privileges of employment.
D. Every school district employee shall be responsible for following this policy.
E. Any person having a question regarding this policy should contact the Executive Director of Human Resources.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. Ch. 363A (Minnesota Human Rights Act)
29 U.S.C. § 621 et seq. (Age Discrimination in Employment Act)
29 U.S.C. § 2615 (Family and Medical Leave Act)
38 U.S.C. § 4211 et seq. (Employment and Training of Veterans)
38 U.S.C. § 4301 et seq. (Employment and Reemployment Rights of Members of
DRAFT
the Uniformed Services)
42 U.S.C. § 2000e et seq. (Equal Employment Opportunities
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act)
42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq. (Equal Opportunity for Individuals with Disabilities)
Cross References: RAS Policy Disability Nondiscrimination
RAS Policy 405, Veteran's Preference
RAS Policy 413 Harassment and Violence

RAS Policy 102.1 (Equity)
DRAFT

RAS Policy 102.1 (Equity)