Summary Minutes of Study Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed: April 6, 2026

A Study Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, March 16, 2026 at

7:22 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas,

reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
F re r/sch under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session

summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Welcome and Introductions

Purpose and Agenda
Review-of the Board-of Education 2025-26 Agenda-and Working Document, highlighting the sections to be covered this evening.

District Governance and Policy (None for this evening.)

Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction
A. Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 - Facilities, Programming and Long-Term Planning
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Dr. Bob McDowell, Assistant Superintendent
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Dr. Staloch, Dr. McDowell, and Ms. Hoheisel provided a presentation with the purpose of:
e Revisiting information, data, and options in more detail\
e Examining decision-making domino effects e Providing answers to specific Board questions;
In hopes that the Board as a whole can provide administration with more detailed direction regarding scope, and information requests needed for additional decision-making.
B. Change to 2025-26 School Board Meetings Schedule to include potential additional Study Session dates
Dr. Staloch and Dr. McDowell asked the Board to discuss the possibility of adding a few additional Study Sessions, with the intent of bringing selected dates to action at the April 6, 2026 Business Meeting.

Board Governance

A. 2026-27 School Board Meeting Schedule
Chair Evans-Becker reviewed the 2026-27 schedule for meetings, updated proposed dates for a Canvassing the
Election meeting in November.
MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved to hold the Canvassing the Election Meeting on Tuesday, November 10, 2026
at 6:00 p.m., Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion passed with a voice vote.

B. School Board Self-Evaluation
Chair Evans-Becker provided dates Gail Gilman of the MN School Boards Association (MSBA) would be available to review the results of the self-evaluation with the Board - May 4 or May 18. The Board agreed on May 18 during the
Study Session.

Superintendent Relations (None for this evening.)
Community Engagement (None for this evening.)
Information Items (None for this evening.)

Study Session concluded at 10:54 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board