To: School Board and Superintendent Staloch
From: Policy Committee
Date: April 20, 2026
Re: Policy Committee Report
The Policy Committee convened on April 15, 2026 to continue its work on reviewing and advancing policies. The policy committee remains committed to ensuring that policies are updated. The policies presented below are up for first and second read and approval by the school board.
We appreciate the dedication of all involved in this critical work and will continue to provide updates as policies progress through review and approval.
Our next meeting is scheduled for May 20, 2026.
POLICIES FOR FIRST READ
Policy Number
Purpose Policy Change Description of Change and Title
535 Policy - Service RAS had 2 Changing from AP to ● Under IV. Requesting
Animals in Schools policies ( 535 & Policy the Use of a Service
625) around Animal at School service animals in Changes reflect most added letter C and D.
schools. We current MSBA Policy ● Added RAS Equity merged 625 into Policy 102.1
535.
703 Policy - Annual Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● Statue Updates
Audit Policy ● III. Requirements:
- language updates in C.
Changes reflect most E. and H.
current MSBA Policy ● Added RAS Equity
Policy 102.1
704 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● III. Development of
Development and Policy Inventory and
Maintenance of an Accounting System;
Inventory of Fixed Changes reflect most language update
Assets and a Fixed current MSBA Policy ● Statue Updates
Asset Accounting ● Added RAS Equity
System Policy 102.1
705 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● Updated Purpose and
Investments Policy General Statement of
Policy

Changes reflect most ● IV. Authority; current MSBA Policy Objectives, A. updated language
● II. Delegation of
Authority A. updated language
● VI. Permissible
Investment
Instruments; updated language
● Statue updates throughout
● Added RAS Equity
Policy 102.1
714 Policy Fund Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● Section III. Changed to
Balances Policy "Definitions"
● Updated subitems
Changes reflect most under III. Definitions current MSBA Policy and added F, G, and H
● Section IV. Changed to
"Classification of Fund
Balances" with updated language
● Subitems under IV.
struck
● Removed cross reference
● Added RAS Equity
Policy 102.1
721 Policy - Cycle Review Policy title change ● Title changed to
Procurement from Uniform Grant "Procurement"
Guidance Policy ● II. Definitions updated
Regarding Federal subitems
Revenue Sources to ● III. Title changed to
Procurement "Procurement Method
Options" with updated
Changes reflect most subitems current MSBA Policy ● III. Conflict of Interest struck
● IV. Title changed to
"General Procurement
Standards"
○ Added verbiage in
A and G
○ Added H.
Thresholds for employee
Purchases
○ Strikethrough H - L
in section IV
● Strikethrough V.
Managing Equipment and Safeguarding
Assets

● V. Title changed to
"Procurement
Methods WhenUsing
State Funds"
○ Added subitems A.-
E.
● Added section VI.
"Procurement
Methods When Using
Federal Funds"
○ Added subitems A.
- H.
● Section VII. updated language in A.- C.
● Section VIII. Allowable
Use of Funds and Cost
Principles
○ updated language in B. Definitions
○ Letter C. Allowable
Costs
○ Updated sub item requirements 1-36.
○ Updated language in D and subitems
1-18.
○ Added letters K-M
● IX Compensation-
Personal Services
○ Updated language in A.
Compensation-Per sonal Services
● Update language in B.
Compensation-Fringe
Benefits
● Removed E. Relocation
Costs of Employees
● Updated language in
F. Travel Costs
● Added Section X
Subrecipient
Monitoring
● Added Section XI.
Conflict of Interest
● Updated References and Cross References
● Added RAS Policy 102.1
Equity
POLICIES FOR SECOND READ
Policy Number
Purpose Policy Change Description of Change and Title

510 Policy - School Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● III. Definitions: Ba>2.
Policy Removed partly
Activities during school hours~
Changes reflect most ● B>removed c. and d.
current MSBA Policy (name is determined by hosting school)
● Added RAS Equity
Policy 102.1
530 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● III. Student
Immunization Policy Immunization
Requirements Requirements: added
Changes reflect most A.
current MSBA Policy ● Added RAS Equity
Policy 102.1
605 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from an AP ● Replaced learning
Alternative to Policy programs with
Educational education services
Services Changes reflect most throughout the current MSBA Policy document
● III. Responsibility:
added A.
● Added RAS Equity
Policy 102.1
610 Policy - Field Cycle Review Changes reflect most ● II. General Statement
Trips current MSBA Policy of Policy updated language in C. 1 and 2.
● III Regulations updated language in
3b
● Added RAS Equity
Policy 102.1
611 Policy - Home Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● II. General Statement
Schooling Policy of Policy statute update
Changes reflect most ● IV. Immunizations current MSBA Policy updated statute and language
● V. Textbooks,
Instructional Material updated language
● VI. Pupil Support
Services updated language
● Added RAS Equity
Policy 102.1
612 Policy - Cycle Review Changes reflect most ● III. Replaced will with
Development of current MSBA Policy directs
Parent and Family ● Added Resources
Engagement ● Added RAS Equity
Policies for Title I Policy 102.1
Programs

623 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● Statute updates
Summer School Policy ● Added RAS Equity
Instruction Policy 102.1
Changes reflect most current MSBA Policy
Policy 698 Cycle Review Upon review and cross Per Becky Brodeur:
referencing, a request This work is more was made to repeal accurately and completely this policy. represented in AP 601.1
and 619. She has asked that we repeal this policy.