To: Members of the School Board
From: Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Date: Date: April 6, 2026
Re: Tentative Agreement - AFSCME
RECOMMENDATION:
District Administration is recommending the approval of a two-year American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees AFSCME) with effective dates of July 1, 2025 through June 30,
2027. The following items have been discussed with both parties.
Financial Package
The salary increase for 2025-2026 will be .5%.
The salary increase for 2026-2027 will be 1%.
Salary increase will be retroactive back to July 1, 2025.
There will be a $50/month increase to insurance benefits starting in January 2026.
Employees working 200, 210, 225, or 235 day calendars will have two flex days added to their calendar.
Employees working a 260 day calendar will have two floating holidays added to their calendar.
Non-Economics
The articles in red are revisions to the contract. The language that is stuck will be removed from the contract.
Article I Definitions
1-3-3
Category III-A, Early Childhood Secretary.
ARTICLE IV - Grievance Procedures
4-5-3
Step 3:
If a satisfactory settlement is not reached at the second level, either party may voluntarily request mediation through the Bureau of Mediation Services. The School Board will receive notice the grievance has reached the third level. Both parties must agree to use this step; otherwise, the unresolved grievance will proceed to the fourth level. If no agreement is reached within twenty
(20) days, the unresolved grievance will proceed to the fourth level.
4-5-4
Step 4:
Within said five (5) workdays, either the Union or the School Board may voluntarily request mediation through the Bureau of Mediation (BMS). The mediation process will not normally last more than one day. Both parties must agree to use this voluntary step, otherwise an unresolved grievance will proceed to Step 5 (e.g., grievances involving possible financial liabilities may not be appropriate for mediation).

4-5-5
Step 5:
Within said five (5) days, either party may request arbitration. The parties shall, within ten (10) days after the request to arbitrate, attempt to agree upon the selection of an arbitrator. If no agreement on an arbitrator is reached, either party may request the Bureau of Mediation Services to submit a list of five arbitrators, providing such a request is made within twenty (20) days after request for arbitration. The parties shall alternately strike names from the list of five until only one name remains that shall be the agreed-upon arbitrator. Failure to request a list of arbitrators from the
Bureau of Mediation Services within the time periods provided herein shall constitute a waiver of the grievance.
Article V - Working Conditions
5-4 Emergency Closing
When schools are closed due to inclement weather, or other unforeseen circumstances such as mechanical failure the district will implement an "e-learning day". Early dismissal/staggered release days allow staff to leave the building once their supervision of students has ended.
5-5 Holidays
Easter Monday and add Juneteenth