Robbinsdale Area Schools
Vision 2030
Phase I
Administrative Report
October 13, 2025

Short-Term Timeline
September October November December January
Board direction for SOD and beyond
Options presented and considered
Final facility repurposing 26-27 recommendation
Public input and Board approval
SOD planning and refinement
Final SOD plan approval
2

Current Short-Term Timeline
Oct 13* - Board meeting (Present more detailed information towards recommendations)
Oct 20 - Board meeting (Present Phase one recommendations and SOD items)
Nov 3 - Board meeting (Finalize Phase one options, survey results, and other SOD items)
Nov 17 - Board meeting (Present final facility recommendations for 2026-2027 and SOD items)
Nov 24* - Board meeting (Final facility recommendations for 2026-2027 and SOD items)
Dec 1 - Board meeting (Regular business completed for month of Dec)
Dec 8* - Board meeting (Public Input/hearing/Board vote for any school closures)
Dec 15 - Board meeting (Business meeting/work session)
Jan 5 - Board meeting (Final draft SOD)
Jan 20 - Board meeting (SOD vote)
3

Current Extended Timeline
Phase I (Sept 2025 - August 2026) - SOD Plan, reduce footprint through initial building closure/consolidation/reconfiguration plan; plan remaining building configuration planning and related bond work; create initial boundary adjustments; finalize initial operation changes.
Phase II (January 2026 - August 2027) - Implementation of initial reconfiguration, finalize longer-term building configuration and related bonding needs (Nov 2026); plan long term programmatic, operational, and boundary changes. Potentially begin first facility improvements.
Phase III (March 2027 - August 2028) - Implementation of additional reconfiguration moves; facility improvement projects; programmatic planning and prep; final facility staging.
Phase IV (March 2028 - August 2029) - Facility improvements; Implementation of programmatic changes;
Planning and prep for additional programming; final facility moves.
Phase V (March 2029 - August 2030) - Fully implement ReImagine Rdale 2030; complete SOD
4

Awareness and Anticipation
● This work is COMPLEX. It will feel CLUNKY. It is IMPERFECT
● Folks will experience the "Pond is shrinking" effect
● There will be competing interests that result in intense advocacy and strong statements.
● Almost everything will have a trade off.
● There will be direct and indirect impacts to students, staff, and families.
● There will impacts to staffing, programming, boundaries
● Possibilities and Opportunities will be created
5

Why Consolidations for 26-27?
1. Reduce our footprint to align with enrollment reality and projection
2. Major financial piece of working out of SOD Plan
Efficiency Effectiveness Desirable Feasible
Equity Sustainable
6

Information for Building Considerations
➢ Primary Decision Points
○ Buildings Capacities/Utilization
○ Enrollment
○ Operational Costs
○ Building Conditions (all buildings)
○ Locations
2026-27
➢ Secondary Decision Points
○ Boundaries/Transportation
○ Demographics
○ Future Decisions
○ Impacts and trade-offs
○ Programming
7

Guiding Change
Current Reality Unacceptable Means Results
The Why The Not How The What
● We are statutory operating debt as defined by the ● We will not propose a plan that creates ● Reduce the Rdale building
Minnesota Department of Education (MDE), and inequities in learning opportunities. facilities footprint to increase need to submit our plan by January 31, 2026. ● We will not create recommendations efficiency and effectiveness
● Student academic outcomes are below that are not sustainable, feasible, and while maintaining an equity acceptable levels. desirable. focus.
● Rdale facilities are outdated, with some in critical ● We will not propose recommendations ● Develop a plan to be operational status, and not designed for 21st that go against state statute. implemented for the 2026-27
century learning. ● We will not be "single agenda driven" or school year that is desirable,
● Students, staff, and parents have expressed special interest focused and instead will feasible, and sustainable concerns about school and student safety. seek recommendations that are best for regardless of any future
● Rdale has experienced continuous enrollment all students and the district as a whole. building referendum or declines. ● We will minimize the number of programming decisions.
● The needs of our students have shifted, and the transitions students experience during ● Establish financial stability in demands on the school district have increased. or as a result of building the next several years.
● We cannot cut our way out of these challenges, consolidation/closure. ● Develop a 5-year plan to and we have an opportunity to create a better ● We will not change elementary magnet address statutory operating district. programming changes for the 2026-27 debt as defined by the
● ReImagine Vision 2030 committee has made school year. Minnesota Department of recommendations. Education (MDE).
8

Resources
● District Map
● Guiding Change Document
● Condition (LTFM needs)
● Capacity Chart
● Enrollment
● Open Enrollment
● Demographics
● Operational Costs
● Heat Maps
9

What more information is needed?
10

Short-Term Timeline
September October November December January
Board direction for SOD and beyond
Options presented and considered
Final facility repurposing 26-27 recommendation
Public input and Board approval
SOD planning and refinement
Final SOD plan approval
11

What more information is

needed?