Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Approved: January 26, 2015
Reviewed and Revised: March 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
605AP:
605 POLICY - ALTERNATIVE EDUCATIONAL SERVICES Learning Options
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to recognize the need for alternative educational services learning programs for some school district students.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
The school board recognizes the importance of alternative educational servicesprogram options for some students who may be at risk of being able to continue or to complete their education programs. It is the policy of the school districtboard that options shall be made available for these students to select educational alternatives that will enhance their opportunity to complete their education programs, recognizing that some students may become successful learners if given an opportunity to learn in a different environment and through a different learning style.
III. RESPONSIBILITY
A. Any student who is 17 years old who seeks to withdraw from school and the student's parent or caregiver must attend a meeting with school personnel to discuss the educational opportunities available to the student, including alternative educational opportunities, and sign a written election to withdraw from school.
B. It shall be the responsibility of the superintendent or their designee Executive Director of
Student Services and the Executive Director of Academics to identify alternative educational program opportunities to be made available to students who may be at risk, to recommend such alternative educational services programs to the school board for approval, and to familiarize students and parents with the availability of such alternative educational services programs. The superintendent shall, through cooperative efforts with other schools, agencies, and organizations, periodically recommend additional or modified alternative educational services learning programs to the school board.
C. B. The superintendent shall have discretionary authority to develop guidelines and directives to implement school board policy relating to alternative programs.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 120A.22, Subd. 8 (Compulsory Instruction)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.41, Subd. 11 (Definitions - Alternative Educational ¶
Services)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.45, Subd. 1 (Grounds for Dismissal)
Minn. Stat. § 123A.06 (State-Approved Alternative Programs and

Services)
Minn. Stat. § 124D.66 (Assurance of Mastery Programs)
Minn. Stat. § 124D.68 (Graduation Incentives Programs)
Minn. Stat. § 124D.74 (American Indian Language and Cultural Educational
Programs)
Minn. Stat. § 125A.50 (Alternative Delivery of Specialized Instructional
Services)
Cross References: Policy 603 (Curriculum Development)
Policy 604AP (Instructional Curriculum)
RAS Equity Policy 102.1