Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Approved March 21, 2011
Reviewed, Revised: January 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
412 POLICY - EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to identify school district business expenses that involve initial payment by an employee, qualify for reimbursement from the school district, and to specify the manner by which the employee seeks reimbursement.
II. AUTHORIZATION
All school district business expenses to be reimbursed must be approved by the supervising administrator. Such expenses to be reimbursed may include transportation, meals, lodging, registration fees, required materials, parking fees, tips (up to 15%), and other reasonable and necessary school district business-related expenses.
III. REIMBURSEMENT
A. Requests for reimbursement must be itemized on the official school district form and are to be submitted to the designated administrator.
B. School District personnel or persons representing the school district who use their personal vehicle to travel to a destination out of the school district or within the district and have the prior approval of the superintendent, his/her designee or principal, will be reimbursed at the same rate as the IRS Standard mileage rate. The district will not pay mileage for out of state trips that totals more than the cost of an airline ticket.
C. School personnel or representatives of the school district who, with the advanced approval of the superintendent or his/her designee who are on school business out of the district may receive reimbursement for meals of up to the per diem rate set by the U.S. General
Services Administration for the city of destination. Personnel must verify the actual expense of meals with original itemized receipts. When, however a school employee is supervising or with a group of students on an authorized school activity the employee shall eat meals costing the same amount as students are provided.
D. Approval to be reimbursed for the cost of lodging must be obtained in advance from the superintendent or designee. The district will reimburse school personnel (up to cost of a medium priced facility) per night for approved lodging per individual employee. When an employee is sharing a room with a non reimbursable person, the district will pay on the rate for a single occupancy. Lodging will be reimbursed only when an employee submits an original lodging statement. If the employee did share a room, the single rate must be marked on the statement. Other reasonable expenses connected with the travel of school personnel while conducting school district business shall be reimbursed with the submittal

of an original itemized receipt. Lodging within a 60 mile radius of the school district is not normally reimbursed. Only when compelling circumstances exist and with the advanced approval of the superintendent or designee will exceptions be permitted.
E. The cost of conference admissions, fees and materials will be reimbursed after the conference dates. Original itemized receipts need to be submitted for verification.
Other reasonable expenses connected with the travel of school personnel while conducting school district business may be reimbursed. Expenses for family members will not be reimbursed.
F. School personnel who are approved to travel on a daily basis between the schools may submit actual mileage for reimbursement at the same rate as the IRS standard mileage rate.
IV. AIRLINE TRAVEL CREDIT
A. Employees are encouraged to use the District's travel agent when booking airline flights and to use the District's Purchase Order System for payment.
B. Employees utilizing school district funds to pay for airline travel are required to ensure that any credits or other benefits issued by any airline accrue to the benefit of the school district rather than the employee.
1. To the extent an airline will not honor a transfer or assignment of credit or benefit from the employee to the school district, the employee shall report receipt of the credit or benefit to the designated administrator within 90 days of receipt of the credit or benefit.
2. Reports of the receipt of an airline credit or benefit shall be made in writing and shall include verification from the airline as to the credit or benefit received.
Reimbursement for airline travel expenses will not be made until such documentation is provided.
C. Employees who have existing credits or benefits issued by an airline based upon previously reimbursed airline travel for school district purposes will be required to utilize those credits or benefits toward any subsequent airline travel related to school district purposes, prior to reimbursement for such travel, to the extent permitted and/or feasible.
D. The requirements of this section apply to all airline travel, regardless of where or how the tickets are purchased.
V. ESTABLISHMENT OF DIRECTIVES AND GUIDELINES
The superintendent shall develop a schedule of reimbursement rates for school district business expenses, including those expenses requiring advance approval and specific rates of reimbursement. The superintendent shall also develop directives and guidelines to address methods and times for submission of requests for reimbursement.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 15.435 (Airline Travel Credit)

Minn. Stat. § 471.665 (Mileage Allowances)
Minn. Op. Atty. Gen. 1035 (Aug. 23, 1999) (Retreat Expenses)
Minn. Op. Atty. Gen. 161b-12 (Aug. 4, 1997) (Transportation Expenses)
Minn. Op. Atty. Gen. 161B-12 (Jan. 24, 1989) (Operating Expenses of Car)
Cross References: Policy 214 (Out-of-State Travel by School Board Members.