To: School Board and Superintendent Staloch
From: Policy Committee
Date: April 6, 2026
Re: Policy Committee Report
The Policy Committee convened on March 18, 2026 to continue its work on reviewing and advancing policies. The committee remains committed to ensuring that policies are updated.
As part of this process, the Cabinet is actively reviewing and providing input and engaging other relevant stakeholders as appropriate.
We appreciate the dedication of all involved in this critical work and will continue to provide updates as policies progress through review and approval.
Our next meeting is April 15, 2026.
POLICIES FOR FIRST READ
Policy Number
Purpose Policy Change Description of Change and Title
510 Policy - School Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● III. Definitions: Ba>2.
Policy Removed partly
Activities during school hours~
Changes reflect most ● B>removed c. and d.
current MSBA Policy (name is determined by hosting school)
● Added RAS Equity
Policy 102.1
530 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● III. Student
Immunization Policy Immunization
Requirements Requirements: added
Changes reflect most A.
current MSBA Policy ● Added RAS Equity
Policy 102.1
605 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from an AP ● Replaced learning
Alternative to Policy programs with
Educational education services
Services Changes reflect most throughout the current MSBA Policy document
● III. Responsibility:
added A.
● Added RAS Equity
Policy 102.1

610 Policy - Field Cycle Review Changes reflect most ● II. General Statement
Trips current MSBA Policy of Policy updated language in C. 1 and 2.
● III Regulations updated language in
3b
● Added RAS Equity
Policy 102.1
611 Policy - Home Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● II. General Statement
Schooling Policy of Policy statute update
Changes reflect most ● IV. Immunizations current MSBA Policy updated statute and language
● V. Textbooks,
Instructional Material updated language
● VI. Pupil Support
Services updated language
● Added RAS Equity
Policy 102.1
612 Policy - Cycle Review Changes reflect most ● III. Replaced will with
Development of current MSBA Policy directs
Parent and Family ● Added Resources
Engagement ● Added RAS Equity
Policies for Title I Policy 102.1
Programs
623 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● Statute updates
Summer School Policy ● Added RAS Equity
Instruction Policy 102.1
Changes reflect most current MSBA Policy
Policy 698 Cycle Review Upon review and cross Per Becky Brodeur: This referencing, a request work is more accurately was made to repeal and completely this policy. represented in AP 601.1
and 619. She has asked that we repeal this policy.