Robbinsdale Area Schools
Independent School District 281
Approved: January 8, 2024
Revised: July 2025
Approved: (enter date)
413 POLICY ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE - DISCRIMINATION, HARASSMENT,
AND VIOLENCE
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this administrative procedure is to implement Policy 413 and is to foster learning and working environments free from discrimination, harassment, and violence on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, familial status, status with regard to public assistance, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression, or disability
(Protected Class).
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF PROCEDURE
A. The school district prohibits any form of discrimination, harassment, or violence on the basis of a person's protected class. Any student or school district personnel who discriminates and/or harasses an individual or group of students or school district personnel based on the individual or group's Protected Class is in violation of this
Procedure.
B. Any student or school district personnel who inflicts, threatens to inflict, or attempts to inflict violence upon an individual or group of students or school district personnel based on the individual or group's Protected Class is in violation of this Procedure.
C. The school district will take appropriate action, which may include, but is not limited to:
conducting an investigation; placing one or more individuals in a different setting or location or on administrative leave; restorative justice; remedial response and/or corrective action, including discipline, in response to reports or complaints of discrimination, harassment, or violence against an individual or group of students or school personnel based on the individual or group's Protected Class.
III. DEFINITIONS
Many of the terms used in Policy 413 and this Procedure are defined in the Minnesota Human
Rights Act, Minn. Stat. Chap. 363A, specifically 363A.03. To the extent there are terms used in
DRAFT
the Policy or Procedure which are not defined in the Minnesota Human Rights Act, and/or are specific to the educational setting, they are included below:
A. "Assault" is:
1. an act done with intent to cause fear in another of immediate bodily harm or death;

2. the intentional infliction of or attempt to inflict bodily harm upon another; or
3. the threat to do bodily harm to another with present ability to carry out the threat.
B. "Harassment" consists of physical or verbal conduct, including, but not limited to, electronic communications, relating to an individual's or group of individuals' protected status when the conduct:
1. has the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working or academic environment;
2. has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with an individual's work or academic performance; or
3. otherwise adversely affects an individual's employment or academic opportunities.
C. "Immediately" means as soon as possible but in no event longer than 24 hours.
D. Protected Classification Definitions:
Definitions
1. "Disability" means, with respect to an individual who a. has a physical sensory or mental impairment that materially limits one or more major life activities of such individual; b. has a record of such an impairment; or c. is regarded as having such an impairment or;.
d. has an impairment that is episodic or in remission and would materially limit a major life activity when active.
2. "Familial status" means the condition of one or more minors having legal status or custody with:
a. the minor's parent or parents or the minor's legal guardian or guardians; or
DRAFT
b. the designee of the parent or parents or guardian or guardians with the written permission of the parent or parents or guardian or guardians.
Familial status also means residing with and caring for one or more individuals who lack the ability to meet essential requirements for physical health, safety, or self-care because the individual or individuals are unable to receive and evaluate information or make or communicate decisions.
The protections afforded against harassment or discrimination on the basis of family status apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of

securing legal custody of an individual who has not attained the age of majority.
[NOTE: The 2024 Minnesota legislature revised the definition of
"familial status"].
3. "Marital status" means whether a person is single, married, remarried, divorced, separated, or a surviving spouse and, in employment cases, includes protection against harassment or discrimination on the basis of the identity, situation, actions, or beliefs of a spouse or former spouse.
4. "National origin" means the place of birth of an individual or of any of the individual's lineal ancestors.
5. "Sex" includes, but is not limited to, pregnancy, childbirth, and disabilities related to pregnancy or childbirth.
6. "Sexual orientation" means to whom someone is, or is perceived of as being, emotionally, physically, or sexually attracted to based on sex or gender identity. A person may be attracted to men, women, both, neither, or to people who are genderqueer, androgynous, or have other gender identities.
[NOTE: The 2023 Minnesota legislature redefined 'sexual orientation' in the Minnesota Human Rights Act.]
7. "Status with regard to public assistance" means the condition of being a recipient of federal, state, or local assistance, including medical assistance, or of being a tenant receiving federal, state, or local subsidies, including rental assistance or rent supplements.
E. "Remedial Response" means a measure to stop and correct prohibited conduct, prevent prohibited conduct from recurring, and protect, support, and intervene on behalf of the person who is the target of the prohibited conduct.
F. Sexual Harassment:
1. "Sexual harassment" includes unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual 2 favors, sexually motivated physical conduct or other verbal or physical conduct or communication of a sexual nature when:
a. submission to that conduct or communication is made a term or
DRAFT
condition, either explicitly or implicitly, of obtaining employment or an education; or b. submission to or rejection of that conduct or communication by an individual is used as a factor in decisions affecting that individual's employment or education; or c. that conduct or communication has the purpose or effect of

substantially or unreasonably interfering with an individual's employment or education, or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive employment or educational environment.
2. Sexual harassment may include, but is not limited to:
a. unwelcome verbal harassment or abuse; b. unwelcome pressure for sexual activity; c. unwelcome, sexually motivated, or inappropriate patting, pinching, or physical contact, other than necessary restraint of student(s) by teachers, administrators, or other school district personnel to avoid physical harm to persons or property; d. unwelcome sexual behavior or words, including demands for sexual favors, accompanied by implied or overt threats concerning an individual's employment or educational status; e. unwelcome sexual behavior or words, including demands for sexual favors, accompanied by implied or overt promises of preferential treatment with regard to an individual's employment or educational status; or f. unwelcome behavior or words directed at an individual because of sexual orientation, including gender identity or expression.
G. Sexual Violence:
1. "Sexual violence" is a physical act of aggression or force, or the threat of aggression or force, which involves the touching of another's intimate parts or forcing a person to touch any person's intimate parts. Intimate parts, as defined in Minn. Stat. § 609.341, includes the primary genital area, groin, inner thigh, buttocks, or breast, as well as the clothing covering these areas.
2. Sexual violence may include, but is not limited to:
a. touching, patting, grabbing, or pinching another person's intimate parts;
DRAFT
b. coercing, forcing, or attempting to coerce or force the touching of anyone's 3 intimate parts; c. coercing, forcing, or attempting to coerce or force sexual intercourse or a sexual act on another; or d. threatening to force or coerce sexual acts, including the touching of intimate parts or intercourse, on another.

H. "Violence" is a physical act of aggression or assault upon another or group of individuals because of, or in a manner reasonably related to, an individual's
Protected Class.
I. "Restorative Justice" examines the harmful impact of an action or actions and considers what can be done to repair that harm. This cooperative model includes trained facilitators in a process that aims to hold accountable the person(s) who caused the harm, provide the opportunity for those harmed to communicate as little or as much about the impact of the harm on them as they want to, and allows for full participation by all parties impacted.
IV. REPORTING PROCEDURES
A. Any person who believes they have been the target or victim of discrimination, harassment, or violence on the basis of that person's Protected Class by a student or school district personnel, or any person with knowledge or belief of conduct which may constitute discrimination, harassment, or violence prohibited by this Procedure toward an individual or group of students or school district personnel must report the alleged acts immediately to an appropriate school district official designated by this Procedure.
B. The school district encourages the reporting party or complainant to use the report form available on the district's website or from the school building or district office, but oral reports or written documents other than the form are considered complaints as well.
C. Nothing in this Procedure prevents any person from reporting discrimination, harassment, or violence directly to a school district human rights officer or to the superintendent.
D. In Each School Building. The building principal, the principal's designee, or the building supervisor (a "building leader") is the person responsible for receiving oral or written reports of discrimination, harassment, or violence at the building level. Any school district personnel who receives a report of discrimination, harassment, or violence must inform the building leader immediately. If the complaint involves the building leader, the complaint may be made, or sent directly, to the superintendent or the school district human rights officer by the reporting party or complainant. The Human Rights Officer must ensure that Board policy and related procedures, practices, and appropriate action(s), including discipline, are equitably and fully implemented and serve as the primary contact on policy and procedural matters.
E. School personnel must be alert to possible situations, circumstances, or events that might include acts of discrimination, harassment, or violence. Any school personnel who
DRAFT
witnesses, observes, receives a report of, or has other knowledge or belief of conduct that may constitute discrimination, harassment, or violence must make reasonable efforts to address the discrimination, harassment, or violence and inform the building leader immediately. School district employees who fail to inform the building leader or school district administration of conduct that may constitute discrimination, harassment, or violence or who fail to make reasonable efforts to address and/or resolve the discrimination, harassment, or violence immediately may be subject to action(s) up to and including discipline.

F. Upon receipt of a report, the building leader must notify the school district human rights officer immediately, without screening or investigating the report. The building leader may request, but may not insist upon, a written complaint. A written statement of the facts alleged must be forwarded within 24 hours by the building leader to the human rights officer. If the report was given verbally, the building leader must reduce it to written form within 24 hours and forward it to the human rights officer. Failure to forward any discrimination, harassment, or violence report or complaint as described above may result in action(s) up to and including discipline against the building leader who received the report.
G. The school board designated the Executive Director of Human Resources as the school district Human Rights Officer. If the complaint involves the Human Rights Officer, the complaint must be filed directly with the superintendent.
H. Submission of a good faith complaint or report of discrimination, harassment, or violence will not negatively affect the complainant or reporter's future employment, grades, work assignments, or educational or work environment.
I. The school district will respect the privacy of the complainant(s), the individual(s) against whom the complaint is filed, and any witnesses, as much as possible, consistent with the school district's legal obligations to investigate, to take appropriate action, and to comply with any discovery or disclosure obligations.
J. Retaliation against anyone who, in good faith, complains of, reports, witnesses, and/or participates in an investigation of discrimination, harassment, or violence is strictly prohibited.
K. Knowing and intentional false accusations or reports of discrimination, harassment, or violence are prohibited.
L. Potential Responses to Substantiated Violations of this Procedure:
1. Students who commit, or are a party to, acts of discrimination, harassment, or violence, or who engage in reprisal or intentional false reporting may receive remedial responses, positive behavioral interventions, corrective action, and/or discipline up to and including suspension and/or expulsion.
2. Employees who permit, condone, or tolerate discrimination, harassment, or violence, or engage in an act of reprisal or intentional false reporting of discrimination, harassment, or violence may face disciplinary action up to
DRAFT
and including termination.
3. Consequences for other individuals engaging in prohibited acts of discrimination, harassment, or violence may include, but not be limited to, exclusion from school district property and events and/or termination of services and/or contracts.
V. INVESTIGATION

A. By authority of the school district, the human rights officer, within three (3) days of the receipt of a report or complaint alleging harassment or violence prohibited by this policy, shall undertake or authorize an investigation. The investigation may be conducted by school district officials or by a third party designated by the school district.
B. The investigation may consist of personal interviews with the complainant, the individual(s) against whom the complaint is filed, and others who may have knowledge of the alleged incident(s) or circumstances giving rise to the complaint.
The investigation may also consist of any other methods and documents deemed pertinent by the investigator.
C. In determining whether alleged conduct constitutes a violation of this policy, the school district should consider the surrounding circumstances, the nature of the behavior, past incidents or past or continuing patterns of behavior, the relationships between the parties involved, and the context in which the alleged incidents occurred. Whether a particular action or incident constitutes a violation of this policy requires a determination based on all the facts and surrounding circumstances.
D. In addition, the school district may take immediate steps, at its discretion, to protect the target or victim, the complainant, and students, teachers, administrators, or other school district personnel pending completion of an investigation of alleged harassment or violence prohibited by this policy.
E. The alleged perpetrator of the act(s) of harassment or violence shall be allowed the opportunity to present a defense during the investigation or prior to the imposition of discipline or other remedial responses.
F. The investigation will be completed as soon as practicable. The school district human rights officer shall make a written report to the superintendent upon completion of the investigation. If the complaint involves the superintendent, the report may be filed directly with the school board. The report shall include a determination of whether the allegations have been substantiated as factual and whether they appear to be violations of this policy.
VI. SCHOOL DISTRICT ACTION
A. Upon completion of an investigation that determines a violation of this policy has occurred, the school district will take appropriate action. Such action may include, but is not limited to, warning, suspension, exclusion, expulsion, transfer, remediation, termination, or discharge. Disciplinary consequences will be sufficiently severe to try to
DRAFT
deter violations and to appropriately discipline prohibited behavior. School district action taken for violation of this policy will be consistent with requirements of applicable collective bargaining agreements, Minnesota and federal law, and applicable school district policies and regulations.
B. The school district is not authorized to disclose to a victim private educational or personnel data regarding an alleged perpetrator who is a student or employee of the school district. School officials will notify the targets or victims and alleged perpetrators of

harassment or violence, the parent(s) or guardian(s) of targets or victims of harassment or violence and the parent(s) or guardian(s) of alleged perpetrators of harassment or violence who have been involved in a reported and confirmed harassment or violence incident of the remedial or disciplinary action taken, to the extent permitted by law.
C. In order to prevent or respond to acts of harassment or violence committed by or directed against a child with a disability, the school district shall, where determined appropriate by the child's individualized education program (IEP) or Section 504 team, allow the child's
IEP or Section 504 plan to be drafted to address the skills and proficiencies the child needs as a result of the child's disability to allow the child to respond to or not to engage in acts of harassment or violence.
VII. RETALIATION OR REPRISAL
The school district will discipline or take appropriate action against any student, teacher, administrator, or other school district personnel who commits an act of reprisal or who retaliates against any person who asserts, alleges, or makes a good faith report of alleged harassment or violence prohibited by this policy, who testifies, assists, or participates in an investigation of retaliation or alleged harassment or violence, or who testifies, assists, or participates in a proceeding or hearing relating to such harassment or violence. Retaliation includes, but is not limited to, any form of intimidation, reprisal, harassment, or intentional disparate treatment.
Disciplinary consequences will be sufficiently severe to deter violations and to appropriately discipline the individual(s) who engaged in the harassment or violence. Remedial responses to the harassment or violence shall be tailored to the particular incident and nature of the conduct.
VII. DISSEMINATION OF PROCEDURE AND TRAINING
The District is committed to providing professional development and training to employees and students about it.
VIII. RIGHT TO ALTERNATIVE COMPLAINT PROCEDURES
These procedures do not deny the right of any individual to pursue other avenues of recourse which may include filing charges with the Minnesota Department of Human Rights or another state or federal agency, initiating civil action, or seeking redress under state criminal statutes and/or federal law.
IX. HARASSMENT OR VIOLENCE AS ABUSE
A. Under certain circumstances, alleged harassment or violence may also be possible abuse
DRAFT
under Minnesota law. If so, the duties of mandatory reporting under Minnesota Statutes, chapter 260E may be applicable.
B. Nothing in this policy will prohibit the school district from taking immediate action to protect victims of alleged harassment, violence, or abuse.
X. DISSEMINATION OF POLICY AND TRAINING

A. This policy shall be conspicuously posted throughout each school building in areas accessible to students and staff members.
B. This policy shall be given to each school district employee and independent contractor who regularly interacts with students at the time of initial employment with the school district.
C. This policy shall appear in the student handbook.
D. The school district will develop a method of discussing this policy with students and employees.
E. The school district may implement violence prevention and character development education programs to prevent and reduce policy violations. Such programs may offer instruction on character education including, but not limited to, character qualities such as attentiveness, truthfulness, respect for authority, diligence, gratefulness, self-discipline, patience, forgiveness, respect for others, peacemaking, resourcefulness, and/or sexual abuse prevention.
F. This policy shall be reviewed at least annually for compliance with state and federal law.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 120B.232 (Character Development Education)
Minn. Stat. § 120B.234 (Child Sexual Abuse Prevention Education)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.03, Subd. 2 (Sexual, Religious, and Racial Harassment and
Violence Policy)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.031 (School Student Bullying Policy)
Minn. Stat. Ch. 363A (Minnesota Human Rights Act)
Minn. Stat. § 609.341 (Definitions)
Minn. Stat. Ch. 260E (Reporting of Maltreatment of Minors)
20 U.S.C. §§ 1681-1688 (Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972)
29 U.S.C. § 621 et seq. (Age Discrimination in Employment Act)
29 U.S.C. § 794 (Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973)
42 U.S.C. § 1983 (Civil Action for Deprivation of Rights)
42 U.S.C. § 2000d et seq. (Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964)
42 U.S.C. § 2000e et seq. (Title VII of the Civil Rights Act)
42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq. (Americans with Disabilities Act)
Cross References: RAS Policy 102 (Equal Educational Opportunity)
RAS Policy 102.1 (Equity Policy)
DRAFT
RAS Policy 401 (Equal Employment Opportunity)
RAS Policy 402 (Disability Nondiscrimination Policy)
RAS Policy 403 (Discipline, Suspension, and Dismissal of School District
Employees)
RAS Policy 406 (Public and Private Personnel Data)
RAS Policy 414 (Mandated Reporting of Child Neglect or Physical or Sexual
Abuse)
RAS Policy 415 (Mandated Reporting of Maltreatment of Vulnerable Adults)

RAS Policy 506 (Student Discipline)
RAS Policy 514 (Bullying Prohibition Policy)
RAS Policy 515 (Protection and Privacy of Pupil Records)
RAS Policy 521 (Student Disability Nondiscrimination)
RAS Policy 522 (Title IX Sex Nondiscrimination, Grievance Procedures and
Process)
RAS Policy 524 (Internet Acceptable Use and Safety Policy)
RAS Policy 525 (Violence Prevention)
RAS Policy 526 (Hazing Prohibition)
RAS Policy 528 (Student Parental, Family, and Marital Status
Nondiscrimination)
DRAFT