Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Adopted: May 27, 2014
Reviewed and Revised: November 19, 2025
Approved: (insert date)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
403AP:
403 POLICY - DISCIPLINE, SUSPENSION AND DISMISSAL OF SCHOOL DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to achieve the effective operation of the school district's programs through the cooperation of all employees under a system of policies and rules applied fairly and uniformly.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
The disciplinary process described herein is designed to utilize progressive steps, where appropriate, to produce positive corrective action. While the school district intends that in most cases progressive discipline will be administered, the specific form of discipline chosen in a particular case and/or the decision to impose discipline in a manner otherwise, is solely within the discretion of the school district.
III. DISCIPLINE
A. Violation of School Laws and Rules
The form of discipline imposed for violations of school laws and rules may vary from an oral reprimand to termination of employment or discharge depending upon factors such as the nature of the violation, whether the violation was intentional, knowing and/or willful and whether the employee has been the subject of prior disciplinary action of the same or a different nature. School laws and rules to which this provision applies include:
1. policies of the school district;
2. directives and/or job requirements imposed by administration and/or the employee's supervisor; and
3. federal,state and local laws, rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, the
DRAFT
rules and regulations adopted by federal and state agencies.
B. Substandard Performance
An employee's failure to improve substandard performance may result in the imposition of discipline ranging from an oral reprimand to termination of employment or discharge.
In most instances, discipline imposed for the reason of substandard performance will follow a progressive format and will be accompanied by guidance, help and

encouragement to improve from the employee's supervisor and reasonable time for correction of the employee's deficiency.
C. Misconduct
Misconduct of an employee will result in the imposition of discipline consistent with the seriousness of the misconduct. Conduct which falls into this category includes, but is not limited to:
1. unprofessional or unethical conduct;
2. use of illegal drugs, alcohol or any other chemical substance on the job or any use off the job which impacts on the employee's performance;
3. deliberate and serious violation of the rights and freedoms of other employees, students, parents or other persons in the school community;
4. activities of a criminal nature relating to the fitness or effectiveness of the employee to perform the duties of the position;
5. falsification of credentials and experience;
6. unauthorized destruction or theft of school district property;
7. violation of the rights of others as provided by federal and state laws related to human rights, including harassment due to protected class status.
IV. FORMS OF DISCIPLINE
A. The forms of discipline that may be imposed by the school district include, but are not limited to:
1. oral warning;
2. written warning or reprimand;
3. suspension without pay;
4. demotion; and
DRAFT
5. dismissal from employment.
B. Other forms of discipline, including any combination of the forms described in Paragraph
A., above, may be imposed if, in the judgment of the administration, another form of discipline will better accomplish the school district's objective of stopping or correcting the offending conduct and improving the employee's performance.
V. PROCEDURES FOR ADMINISTERING POLICY

A. In an instance involving a non-probationary employee where When any form of discipline is imposed, the employee's supervisor will:
1. Advise the employee of any inadequacy, deficiency or conduct which is the cause of the discipline, either orally or in writing. If given orally, the supervisor will document the fact that an oral warning was given to the employee specifying the date, time, and nature of the oral warning.
2. Provide directives to the employee to correct the conduct or performance.
3. Forward copies of all writings to the administrator in charge of personnel for filing in the employee's personnel file.
B. Probationary employees do not have the same expectation of continuing employment as permanent employees and may be subject to summary dismissal for violations of school rules, substandard performance, and/or misconduct, subject to relevant governing law and collective bargaining agreements.
C. The school district retains the right to omit steps in the progression of disciplinary steps or immediately terminate or discharge an employee as appropriate, subject to relevant governing law and collective bargaining agreements where when applicable.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 122A.40 (Teachers - Employment; Contracts; Termination)
Minn. Stat. § 122A.41 (Teacher Tenure Act; Cities of the First Class)
Minn. Stat. § 122A.44 (Contracting with Teachers; Substitute Teachers)
Minn. Stat. § 122A.58 (Coaches; Termination of Duties)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.02, Subd. 14 (Employees; Contracts for Services
General Powers of independent School Districts)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.143 (Superintendent)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.147 (Principals)
Minn. Stat. § 197.46 et seq. (Veterans Preference Act)
Cross References: RAS Policy 102.1 (Equity)
DRAFT