Good evening, Board Chair Evans-Becker, School Board Directors, Superintendent
Staloch, and members of the public. According to MN statute 123B.51subd. 5. the board may close a schoolhouse only after a public hearing on the question of the necessity and practicability of the proposed closing. The following information addresses the necessity and practicability for the proposed closing of the following schools and the
Educational Services Building:
● Robbinsdale Middle School, located at 3730 Toledo Avenue North
Robbinsdale, MN 55422
● Lakeview Elementary School, located at 4110 Lake Drive
Robbinsdale, MN 55422
● Neill Elementary School, located at 6600 Medicine Lake Road
Crystal, MN 55427
● Noble Elementary School, located at 2601 Noble Avenue North
Golden Valley, MN 55422,
● Sonnesyn Elementary School, located at 3421 Boone Avenue North
New Hope, MN 55427, and the
● Educational Services Building, located at 4148 Winnetka Ave N.
New Hope, MN 55427
The Robbinsdale School District is currently in Statutory Operating Debt. The district also operates more school buildings than needed for its current enrollment. And, the district is projected to continue to see enrollment decrease over the next ten years.
On September 23, 2025, the administration shared with the school board a short-term timeline which will include submitting a Statutory Operating Debt (SOD) plan to the
Minnesota Department of Education by January 31, 2026. The timeline also included public board meeting dates along with expected topics of recommendations and options for reaching initial reductions of the SOD plan. The timeline specifically called out the potential of school closures as options for reduction.
Between September 23, 2025 and December 8, 2025, the administration presented at eight board meetings or study sessions. During these meetings, various pieces of information were presented, including but not limited to cost savings, utilization rates,
Long-Term Facility Maintenance needs, demographic information, public survey information, community and staff input, student enrollment information, specific building configuration information, transportation information, programmatic information, site information, and community partnership information. In addition, at each meeting, the administration requested, from the board, what additional information was needed pertaining to the decision at hand and then provided such information to the school board.

Between September 23, 2025, and December 8, 2025, the administration shared, on multiple occasions, primary and secondary decision-making factors used in developing closure and consolidation options. The administration also shared how, when considering the district as a whole, each option presented needed to balance efficiency, effectiveness, and equity, while also balancing which options were most desirable, feasible, and seemingly sustainable regardless of future decisions.
Robbinsdale Middle School had an October 1, 2025, enrollment of 571 students. Its current programmatic capacity is 1600 students, resulting in a utilization rate of 35.6%.
The enrollment of Robbinsdale Middle School students can be sufficiently consolidated with another district middle school. Consolidation of Robbinsdale Middle School with another school will create efficiencies in staffing costs, programming costs, building operational costs, and potentially transportation costs. According to the latest Facilities
Condition Assessment, Robbinsdale Middle School has significant short- and long-term facility needs. The administration believes the information shared with the school board addresses the necessity and practicability for closing Robbinsdale Middle School.
Lakeview Elementary School had an October 1, 2025, enrollment of 250 students.
Its current programmatic capacity is 572 students, resulting in a utilization rate of 43.7%.
Due to intradistrict transfers, Lakeview captures 191 of 391 resident students assigned to its boundary. It is one of three elementary schools serving the east side of the school district. Lakeview Elementary School students can be sufficiently consolidated with other elementary schools and maintain service to the east side of the district.
Consolidation of Lakeview Elementary with other elementary schools will create efficiencies in staffing costs, programming costs, building operational costs, and potentially transportation costs. According to the latest Facilities Condition Assessment,
Lakeview Elementary School has lower short- and long-term facility needs, which makes it a good choice to repurpose for other programming. The administration believes the information shared with the school board addresses the necessity and practicability for closing Lakeview Elementary School.
Neill Elementary School had an October 1, 2025, enrollment of 280 students. Its current programmatic capacity is 756 students, resulting in a utilization rate of 37%. Due to intradistrict transfers, Neill Elementary School captures 208 of 603 resident students assigned to its boundary. It is one of two non-magnet elementary schools serving the south-central portion of the school district. Neill Elementary School can be sufficiently consolidated with other elementary schools and maintain service to the south-central portion of the district. Consolidation of Neill Elementary with other elementary schools

will create efficiencies in staffing costs, programming costs, building operational costs, and potentially transportation costs. According to the latest Facilities Condition
Assessment, Neill Elementary School has less long-term facility need than Sonnesyn
Elementary School. The administration believes the information shared with the school board addresses the necessity and practicability for closing Neill Elementary School.
Noble Elementary School had an October 1, 2025, enrollment of 228 students.
Its current programmatic capacity is 542 students, resulting in a utilization rate of 42%.
Due to intradistrict transfers, Noble Elementary School captures 139 of 369 resident students assigned to its boundary. It is one of three elementary schools serving the east side of the school district. Noble Elementary School can be sufficiently consolidated with other elementary schools and maintain service to the east side of the district.
Consolidation of Noble Elementary School with other elementary schools will create efficiencies in staffing costs, programming costs, building operational costs, and potentially transportation costs. According to the latest Facilities Condition Assessment,
Noble Elementary School has more long-term facility needs than other eastern schools but fewer long-term facility needs than south-central schools. The administration believes the information shared with the school board addresses the necessity and practicability for closing Noble Elementary School.
Sonnesyn Elementary School had an October 1, 2025, enrollment of 250 students.
Its current programmatic capacity is 724 students, resulting in a utilization rate of 34.5%.
Due to intradistrict transfers, Sonnesyn captures 161 of 479 resident students assigned to its boundary. It is one of two non-magnet elementary schools serving the south-central portion of the school district. Sonnesyn Elementary School can be sufficiently consolidated with other elementary schools and maintain service to the south-central portion of the district. Consolidation of Sonnesyn Elementary Schools with other elementary schools will create efficiencies in staffing costs, programming costs, building operational costs, and potentially transportation costs. According to the latest
Facilities Condition Assessment, Sonnesyn Elementary School has higher long-term maintenance needs than Neill Elementary School. The administration believes the information shared with the school board addresses the necessity and practicability for closing Sonnesyn Elementary School.
The Education Services building serves as the district's enrollment center, functions as the school board meeting space, and houses approximately 108 district employees.
According to the latest Facilities Condition Assessment, the ESC has approximately
$11M - $13M of facility needs, which makes it a good choice to relocate into another existing building. The ESC departments can be consolidated with other programming at an alternate location or locations. Fully closing the ESC will save the district building

operational cost. The administration believes the information shared with the school board addresses the necessity and practicability for closing the Education Services
Center building.