Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Sept. 3, 2025

Our mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Centering Safety, Connection and Care
Honoring our neighbors at
Annunciation Catholic School and church.

School Board Recognition Month
September is School Board
Recognition Month, a time to honor the dedicated leaders who serve as the guiding light for student success in public schools across the state.
Thank you, Robbinsdale Area
Schools Board of Education for your commitment to our students and families.

Welcoming New Teachers
During the week of Aug. 18, we joyously welcomed our new teachers to Rdale! They received training and professional development from their various sites, as well as a collective new teacher orientation.
● They learned about Rdale's mission and strategies for a successful year.
● Time to meet the district leadership team and one another before jumping into the school year.

Great Kick-Off to the Year
On Monday, Aug. 25, from 8 to 9:30 a.m. at Cooper
High School, we gathered for a fantastic kick-off to the 2025-26 school year, focusing on the theme
Take Yourself On: Believe, Belong, Become.
● Students and staff were featured throughout the event, including:
○ Co-emcee Chad Hill, Cooper senior
○ American Indian Royalty students
○ Rdale Teacher of the Year Markus Hahn
○ Cooper Marching Band and Bella Voce

Great Kick-Off to the Year

Great Kick-Off to the Year

Record-breaking Vaccine Clinic
The vaccine clinic held at Meadow Lake
Elementary on Aug. 26 broke the
Minnesota Department of Health record for largest community clinic, serving 121
students. This broke the record set last year at Armstrong's vaccine clinic with 95
students.
● We have hosted five clinics in the last two years in partnership with MDH.
● Ensures that our students have free and equitable access to vaccines.

District Professional Development
Across the district, staff took part in various professional development sessions to be best equipped for the
2025-26 school year.
● Wit and Wisdom ELA curriculum
● Catalyst Foundational Skills
● Coregulation and De-escalation
Training for High School

District Professional Development

Welcome Back Meetings
The start of a new school year brings excitement and anticipation
- for both students and staff.
● First-day staff meetings held across the district
● Energy, enthusiasm, and
"first-day jitters" for staff too
● Focus on academics and outcomes for kids embedded in presentations

Thank You, Custodians!
Throughout this summer, our custodians and facilities staff have been working tirelessly to repair, deep clean, and care for all of our buildings.
Because of their hard work, our schools are welcoming learning environments for our students!

Well Attended Open Houses
All of our schools held open houses last week to welcome students and their families to the 2025-26 school year.
● Families and students met their teachers, dropped off school supplies and engaged with their school community
● Building great relationships before the school year has officially begun

Well Attended Open Houses

First Day of School!
A joyful start as students returned to classrooms this week across Rdale!
● Yesterday we welcomed back grades 1-5, 6, and 9
● Today, grades 7-8 and 11-12
returned to school
● Tomorrow, kindergarteners begin their school journey

First Day of School!

First Day of School!

Thank You

a

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools

ear

Sea

em District Professional Development

\ eae

| \

esas Well Attended Open Houses

uz

ROBBINSDALE

'Area Schools

uz

roganspale First Day of School!

Thank You

ROBBINSDALE
Area Schools