Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools Policy 423
Approved by the School Board 8/18/2014
Reviewed, Revised: January 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
423 POLICY - EMPLOYEE-STUDENT RELATIONSHIPS
I. PURPOSE
The school district is committed to an educational environment in which all students are treated with respect and dignity. Every school district employee is to provide students with appropriate guidance, understanding, and direction while maintaining a standard of professionalism and acting within accepted standards of conduct.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. This policy applies to all school district employees at all times, whether on or off duty and on or off of school district locations.
B. At all times, students will be treated by teachers and other school district employees with respect, courtesy, and consideration and in a professional manner. Each school district employee is expected to exercise good judgment and professionalism in all interpersonal relationships with students. Such relationships must be and remain on a teacher-student basis or an employee student basis.
C. Teachers must be mindful of their inherent positions of authority and influence over students. Similarly, other school district employees also may hold positions of authority over students of the school district and must be mindful of their authority and influence over students.
D. Sexual relationships between school district employees and students, without regard to the age of the student, are strictly forbidden and may subject the employee to criminal liability.
E. Other actions that violate this policy include, but are not limited to, the following:
1. Dating students.
2. Having any interaction/activity of a sexual nature with a student.
3. Committing or attempting to induce students or others to commit an illegal act or act of immoral conduct which may be harmful to others or bring discredit to the school district.
4. Supplying alcohol or any illegal substance to a student, allowing a student access to such substances, or failing to take reasonable steps to prevent such access from occurring.

F. School district employees shall, whenever possible, employ safeguards against improper relationships with students and/or claims of such improper relationships.
[Note: Such safeguards may include the following: avoiding altogether or minimizing physical contact, keeping doors open when talking or meeting with students one-on-one, and/or making sure that such meetings with a student take place in rooms with windows and/or others nearby.]
G. Excessive informal and social involvement with individual students is unprofessional, is not compatible with employee-student relationships, and is inappropriate.
H. School district employees will adhere to applicable standards of ethics and professional conduct in Minnesota law.
III. REPORTING AND INVESTIGATION
A. Complaints and/or concerns regarding alleged violations of this policy shall be handled in accordance with MSBA/MASA Model Policy 103 (Complaints - Students, Employees,
Parents, Other Persons) unless other specific complaint procedures are provided within any other policy of the school district.
as follows:
1. Any student who believes he or she has been the victim of conduct prohibited by this policy should report the alleged acts immediately to an appropriate school official designated by this policy. Any employee with knowledge or belief of conduct prohibited by this policy toward a student must report the alleged acts immediately to an appropriate school district official designated by this policy.
2. The school board designates the Executive Director of Human Resources as the individual responsible to receive and respond to reports or complaints of conduct prohibited by this policy. If the complaint involves the Executive Director of
Human Resources, the complaint shall be filed directly with the Superintendent.
3. Submission of a good faith complaint or report of conduct prohibited by this policy will not affect the complainant or reporter's future employment, grades, or work assignments.
4. Reports of conduct prohibited by this policy are classified as private educational and/or personnel data and/or confidential investigative data and will not be disclosed except as permitted by law. The school district will respect the privacy of the complainant(s), the individual(s) against whom the complaint is filed, and the witnesses as much as possible, consistent with the school district's legal obligations.
B. All employees shall cooperate with any investigation of alleged acts, conduct, or communications in violation of this policy.
6. In Each School Building: The building principal, the principal's designee, or the building supervisor (hereinafter building report taker) is the person responsible for receiving oral or written reports of conduct prohibited by this policy at the building level. Any employee who receives a report of conduct prohibited by this policy shall inform the building report taker immediately. If the complaint involves the building report taker, the complaint shall be made or filed directly with the
Executive Director of Human Resources. School district employees who fail to

inform the building report taker of a report of conduct prohibited by this Policy in a timely manner may be subject to disciplinary action.
7. Upon receipt of a report, the building report taker must notify the Executive
Director of Human Resources immediately. The building report taker may request, but may not insist upon, a written complaint. A written statement of the facts alleged will be forwarded as soon as practicable by the building report taker to the
Executive Director of Human Resources. If the report was given verbally, the building report taker shall personally reduce it to written form within 24 hours and forward it. Failure to forward any report or complaint as provided herein may result in disciplinary action against the building report taker.
B. INVESTIGATION
1. Upon receipt of a report or complaint alleging conduct prohibited by this policy, the
Executive Director of Human Resources shall immediately undertake or authorize an investigation, as appropriate. The investigation may be conducted by school district officials or by a third party designated by the school district.
2. The investigation may consist of personal interviews with the complainant, the individual(s) against whom the complaint is filed, and others who may have knowledge of the alleged incident(s) or circumstances giving rise to the complaint.
The investigation may also consist of any other methods and documents deemed pertinent by the investigator.
3. In determining whether alleged conduct constitutes a violation of this policy, the school district should consider the surrounding circumstances, the nature of the behavior, past incidents or past or continuing patterns of behavior, the relationships between the parties involved, and the context in which the alleged incidents occurred. Whether a particular action or incident constitutes a violation of this policy requires a determination based on all the facts and surrounding circumstances.
4. In addition, the school district may take immediate steps, at its discretion, to protect the alleged victim pending completion of an investigation.
423-3
5. The investigation will be completed as soon as practicable. The Executive Director of Human Resources shall make a written report to the superintendent upon completion of the investigation, as appropriate. If the complaint involves the superintendent, the report may be filed directly with the school board. The report shall include a determination of whether the allegations have been substantiated as factual and whether they appear to be violations of this policy.
IV. SCHOOL DISTRICT ACTION
If the investigation results in a finding that the allegations have been substantiated as factual and a determination that a school employee engaged in conduct that violated this Policy, the school district will take appropriate action. Such action may include, but is not limited to, warning, suspension, exclusion, expulsion, transfer, remediation, termination, or discharge. It also may include reporting to appropriate state or federal authorities, including the Board of Teaching or the appropriate licensing authority and appropriate agencies responsible for investigating reports of maltreatment of minors and/or vulnerable adults. School district action taken for violation of this policy will be consistent with requirements of applicable collective bargaining agreements,
Minnesota and federal law, and school district policies.

V. SCOPE OF LIABILITY
Employees are placed on notice that if an employee acts outside the performance of the duties of the position for which the employee is employed or is guilty of malfeasance, willful neglect of duty, or bad faith, the school district is not required to defend and indemnify the employee for damages in school-related litigation.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 13.43, Subd. 16 (School District or Charter School Disclosure of
Violence or Inappropriate Sexual Contact Personnel Data )
Minn. Stat. § 122A.20, Subd 2 (Mandatory Reporting to Minnesota Board of
Teaching Suspension or Revocation of Licenses)
Minn. Stat. § 122A.40, Subds. 5(b) and 13(b) (Employment; Contracts;
TerminationMandatory immediate discharge of teachers with license revocations due to child or sex abuse convictions)
Minn. Stat. §§ 609.341-609.352 (Defining "position of authority" as well as detailing various sex offenses Definitions)
Minn. Stat. Ch.260E. § 626.556 (Reporting of Maltreatment of Minors)
Minn. Stat. § 626.557 (Reporting of Maltreatment of Vulnerable Adults)
Minn. Rules Part 3512.5200 (Code of Ethics for School Administrators)
Minn. Rules Part 8700.7500 (Code of Ethics for Minnesota Teachers)
Cross References: Policy 413 (Harassment and Violence)
414AP (Mandated Reporting of Child Neglect or Physical or Sexual Abuse)
415AP (Mandated Reporting of Maltreatment of Vulnerable Adults)
421AP (Gifts to Employees)
507AP (Corporal Punishment)
RAS Policy 102.1 - Equity