Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Adopted: September 22, 2014
Reviewed and Revised: February 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
517AP: 517 POLICY - STUDENT RECRUITING
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this administrative procedure policy is to prevent school district employees from exerting undue influence for purposes of securing or retaining the attendance of a student in a school.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. It is the policy of the school district to encourage employees to make available to all interested people information regarding the school district, its schools, programs, policies, and procedures. The purpose of such activity is to assist in the process of fully informed decision making regarding school enrollment and to enhance the visibility and image of the school district.
B. At the same time, the school district recognizes that the scope of such activity is limited by statutory authority and bylaws of the Minnesota State High School League. Accordingly, it shall be a violation of this policy for employees to exert undue influence for purposes of securing or retaining the attendance of a student in a school or to compete with another school district for the enrollment of students.
C. Employees are further prohibited from encouraging others to engage in such conduct on behalf of the school district.
III. DEFINITION
A. The terms "undue influence" or "competing for enrollment" shall include initiating any oral or written contact with a student from another school district who participates in a school-sponsored sport or activity which solicits the student's transfer to participate in a sport or activity.
B. The terms shall also include the awarding of tuition, allowance for board and/or room, allowance for transportation, priority in assignments of jobs, cash or gifts in any form, or any other privilege or consideration if not similarly available to all students.
IV. PROCEDURES
A. The school board shall adopt, by resolution, specific standards for acceptance and rejection of applications for open enrollment. Standards may include the capacity of a program, class, school building, or the statutory limits to nonresident enrollment in a

particular grade level, or whether the student is currently expelled for (1) possessing a dangerous weapon, as defined under federal law, at a school or school function; (2)
possession or using an illegal drug at school or at a school function; (3) selling or soliciting the sale of a controlled substance while at school or a school function; or committing a first, second or third degree assault as described in state law. Standards for acceptance and rejection of open-enrollment applications are subject to the Graduation Incentives Program and may not include previous academic achievement, athletic or other extracurricular ability, disabling conditions, proficiency in the English language, previous disciplinary proceedings, or the student's district of residence.
B. Employees who violate the provisions of the policy shall be subject to disciplinary action as appropriate. Any such disciplinary action shall be made pursuant to and in accordance with applicable statutory authority, collective bargaining agreements, school district policies, and the bylaws of the Minnesota High School League, as applicable.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 124D.03 (Enrollment Options Program)
Minn. Stat. § 124D.68 (Graduation Incentives Program)
Minnesota State High School League Bylaws
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 509 (Enrollment of Nonresident Students)