To: School Board Members and Superintendent Dr. Teri Staloch
From: Maureen Mullen, Director of Facilities and Operations
Date: April 6, 2026
Re: ES and MS Mowing Contract Award Recommendation
Background
The district grounds crew has not been able to consistently meet a 1x/week/school site and a
2x/week/sports field mowing goal for several years. The grounds crew is not able to adequately maintain school site and sports field mowing and grounds care with the current number of sites and the current grounds staffing allotment. This has resulted in our school sites and sports fields regularly being poorly mowed, untrimmed and looking unkempt.
Proposals
Proposals were solicited for mowing and trimming at all district elementary and middle school sites for 26 weeks, April - October 2026, performed minimally one time per week. District grounds staff would retain the sports field and high schools' mowing and the district-wide landscaping work.
Quote details
Proposals were received from 2 of the 5 companies who were invited to submit proposals. The low quote is as follows:
● $382,466.00 (Jenco Property Maintenance, Inc.)
Considerations
These are some of the items reviewed when considering a recommendation:
● We successfully use a combination of in-house and contracted services for district snow removal.
● Significant savings in fuel, equipment, repair and maintenance costs can be expected.
● We propose to leave 3 out of 4 currently open grounds positions unfilled for FY 26/27, for a savings of approximately $260,000 to offset contracted costs.
● We propose to leave part time temporary summer grounds positions unfilled for additional savings.
● A one-year contract does not tie us to a long-term commitment, and an extension could be considered if needed or desired.
Recommendation
The number of sites in the District's portfolio is changing. With the number of sites eventually being reduced, we believe this is a good time to implement a "bridge plan" while the district is being right-sized. A bridge plan would adequately address current grounds care needs while we determine and plan for meeting the district's future grounds care needs and determine a future grounds staffing model.

For the reasons quantified above, I recommend awarding the ES and MS 2026 Mowing Contract to Jenco Property Maintenance, Inc.
Attachments:
Quote Summary