Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Administrative Procedure 530 Robbinsdale Area Schools Policy
Adopted: September 3, 2013
Revised and Approved: September 17, 2018
Reviewed and Revised: March 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
530 POLICY - IMMUNIZATION REQUIREMENTS
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to require that all students receive the proper immunizations as mandated by law to ensure the health and safety of all students.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
All students are required to provide proof of immunization, or appropriate documentation exempting the student from such immunization, and such other data necessary to ensure that the student is free from any communicable diseases, as a condition of enrollment.
III. STUDENT IMMUNIZATION REQUIREMENTS
A. No person over two months old may be allowed to enroll or remain enrolled after the 15th of October, in any elementary or secondary school or child care facility in this state until the person has submitted to the administrator or other person having general control and supervision of the school or child care facility, one of the following statements:
1. a statement from a physician, advanced practice registered nurse, physician assistant, or a public clinic which provides immunizations (hereinafter "medical statement"), affirming that the student received the immunizations required by law, consistent with medically acceptable standards; or
2. a medical statement affirming that the student received the primary schedule of immunizations required by law and has commenced a schedule of the remaining required immunizations, indicating the month and year each immunization was administered,consistent with medically acceptable standards.
B. The statement of a parent or caregiver of a student or an emancipated student may be substituted for the medical statement. If such a statement is substituted, this statement must indicate the month and year each immunization was administered. Upon request, the designated school district administrator will provide information to the parent or caregiver of a student or an emancipated student of the dosages required for each vaccine according to the age of the student.
C. The parent or caregiver of persons receiving instruction in a home school shall submit one of the statements set forth in Section III.A. or III.B., above, or statement of immunization set forth in Section IV., below, to the superintendent of the school district by October 1 of

the first year of their home schooling in Minnesota and the grade 7 year.
D. When there is evidence of the presence of a communicable disease, or when required by any state or federal agency and/or state or federal law, students and/or their parents or caregivers may be required to submit such other health care data as is necessary to ensure that the student has received any necessary immunizations and/or is free of any communicable diseases. No student may be enrolled or remain enrolled in any elementary or secondary school within the school district until the student or the student's parent or caregiver has submitted the required data.
E. The school district may allow a student transferring into a school a maximum of 30 days to submit a statement specified in Section III.A. or III.B., above, or Section IV., below.
Students who do not provide the appropriate proof of immunization or the required documentation related to an applicable exemption of the student from the required immunization within the specified time frames shall be excluded from school until such time as the appropriate proof of immunizations or exemption documentation has been provided.
F. If a person who is not a Minnesota resident enrolls in a school district online learning course or program that delivers instruction to the person only by computer and does not provide any teacher or instructor contact time or require classroom attendance, the person is not subject to the immunization, statement, and other requirements of this policy.
IV. EXEMPTIONS FROM IMMUNIZATION REQUIREMENTS
Students will be exempt from the foregoing immunization requirements under the following circumstances:
A. The parent or caregiver of a minor student or an emancipated student submits a signed medical statement affirming that the immunization of the student is contraindicated for medical reasons or that laboratory confirmation of the presence of adequate immunity exists; or
B. The parent or caregiver of a minor student or an emancipated student submits his or her notarized statement stating the student has not been immunized because of the conscientiously held beliefs of the parent, caregiver or student.
V. NOTICE OF IMMUNIZATION REQUIREMENTS
A. The school district will develop and implement a procedure to:
1. notify parents and students of the immunization and exemption requirements by use of a form approved by the Department of Health;
2. notify parents and students of the consequence for failure to provide required documentation regarding immunizations;
3. review student health records to determine whether the required information has

been provided; and
4. make reasonable arrangements to send a student home when the immunization requirements have not been met and advise the student and/or the student's parent or caregiver of the conditions for re-enrollment.
B. The notice provided shall contain written information describing the exemptions from immunization as permitted by law. The notice shall be in a font size at least equal to the font size and style as the immunization requirements and on the same page as the immunization requirements.
VI. IMMUNIZATION RECORDS
A. The school district will maintain a file containing the immunization records for each student in attendance at the school district for at least five years after the student attains the age of majority.
B. Upon request, the school district may exchange immunization data with persons or agencies providing services on behalf of the student. Immunization data is private student data and disclosure of such data shall be governed by Policy 515 Protection and Privacy of
Pupil Records.
C. The designated school district administrator will assist a student and/or the student's parent or caregiver in the transfer of the student's immunization file to the student's new school within 30 days of the student's transfer.
D. Upon request of a public or private post-secondary educational institution, the designated school district administrator will assist in the transfer of the student's immunization file to the post-secondary educational institution.
VII. OTHER
Within 60 days of the commencement of each new school term, the school district will forward a report to the Commissioner of the Department of Education stating the number of students attending each school in the school district, including the number of students receiving instruction in a home school, the number of students who have not been immunized, and the number of students who received an exemption. The school district also will forward a copy of all exemption statements received by the school district to the Commissioner of the Department of Health.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 13.32 (Educational Data)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.15 (Health Standards; Immunizations; School Children)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.17 (School Board Responsibilities)
Minn. Stat. § 144.29 (Health Records; Children of School Age)
Minn. Stat. § 144.3351 (Immunization Data)
Minn. Stat. § 144.441 (Tuberculosis Screening in Schools)
Minn. Stat. § 144.442 (Testing in Schools)
Minn. Rules Parts 4604.0100-4604.1020 (Immunization)
th
McCarthy v. Ozark Sch. Dist., 359 F.3d 1029 (8 Cir. 2004)

Op. Atty. Gen. 169-W (July 23, 1980)
Op. Atty. Gen. 169-W (Jan. 17, 1968)
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 515 (Protection and Privacy of Pupil Records)
RAS Policy 102.1 - Equity