To: Members of the School Board
From: Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Date: May 4, 2026
Re: 2025-2027 Tentative Agreement - Robbinsdale Equity Allies (REA)
RECOMMENDATION:
The District Administration is recommending the approval of a two-year REA contract with the effective dates being July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2027.
Financial Package
● The salary increase for 2025-2026 will be 0%
● The salary increase for 2026-2027 will be 1.25%
● Salary increase will be retroactive back to July 1, 2025.
● Increase one PTO day.
Non-Economics
The articles in red are revisions to the contract. The language that is stuck will be removed from the contract.
EXEMPT EMPLOYEE STATUS
The REA and the School Board agree that all employees within the REA bargaining unit meet the salary test and duties test making them classified as exempt employees under applicable federal and state wage and hour laws pursuant to the academic administrative exemption. In the event that any member of the REA bargaining unit and/or government agency contests or challenges the exempt status of any bargaining unit employee, the REA shall defend and indemnify the School District against all claims, liabilities, costs, and expenses arising from such contest or challenge, including but not limited to legal fees, settlements, and judgments.
6-5 Emergency Closings and Late Starts
REA members will follow the e-learning plan. REA members will have the option to work remotely unless the Director or Assistant Director requires them to come in for collaborative work
6-6 Holidays
Full time, 40 hours a week or in a school calendar year employees will receive these holidays off with pay: Martin Luther King Day, Presidents' Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day,
Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday after Thanksgiving,
Each REA member shall perform services on those work days designated by the Employer, including those legal holidays on which the Employer is authorized to conduct school. The
Employer recognizes the right of the association to develop a working days calendar through a meet and confer process.

6-10 New REA Members Induction Program
New REA members must go through 20 hours of onboarding training.
Probationary REA members will be expected to participate in a New REA members
Induction Program. Up to twenty (20) hours per year outside the normal school day will be required. No more than four (4) of those hours shall be in any month. Up to four (4) hours may take place on the Friday prior to workshop week.
New Robbinsdale Equity Allies shall serve a probationary period, which shall consist of 12
months. During this period, they may be discharged with or without cause.
Probationary REA members will be expected to participate in New REA members Induction
Program. Up to twenty (20) hours per year will be required. Eight (8) hours of shadowing an
REA lead at the instructional level the REA member has been hired for to ensure a clear understanding of responsibilities, expectations, and contractual obligations
6-11 Professional Responsibilities
REA members shall focus their professional expertise on activities that support student success, equity, and school-wide systems. The specialized functions of the role include
MTSS support, family engagement, including district events, equity initiatives, culturally responsive practices, and serving as the central focus of professional time. All schedules are structured around these core responsibilities, ensuring REA members have dedicated time to fulfill the purpose and intent of the role.
At no time will an REA member be required to substitute teaching or classroom supervision at any time. REA members are not expected to be in the lunchroom, hallways, or on playground and/or bus duty. REA members will be involved in the MTSS processes to help determine/create the plan.
6-12 Lunchroom / Hallway / Outside playground duties and bus duties
REA members are not expected to be in the lunchroom, Hallways, or on playground and/or bus duty.
6-13 MTSS process
REA Members will be involved in the MTSS processes to help determine/create the plan.
6-16 Evaluation
The Director or Assistant Director of Achievement and Integration will conduct two annual reviews of all Robbinsdale Equity Allies.
The Director and/or Assistant Director of Achievement and Integration shall conduct formal evaluations of all Robbinsdale Equity Allies (REA), including one (1) mid-year review and one
(1) end-of-year review during each evaluation cycle.
Evaluation assignments shall be structured to ensure that each REA member is evaluated by both the Director and the Assistant Director within the same evaluation cycle. The administrator who conducts the mid-year review for an REA member shall not conduct

that same employee's end-of-year review. Evaluation responsibilities will be intentionally rotated or exchanged between the Director and Assistant Director to support this process.
7-2-7 Right to Available Positions
Individuals whose names appear on the unrequested leave list possess reinstatement rights to positions constituting 80 or more working days per year.
When hired to these positions, they shall receive a rate of pay based on their proper step and lane. In addition, they may place their names on the District 281 reserve
(substitute) list and accept hourly rate or reserve positions.
In the event of downsizing due to enrollment changes or programmatic need, staffing decisions shall, include but are limited to documented job performance, effectiveness in role, relevant skills, and demonstrated impact. Seniority alone shall not be the sole determining factor.
Employees affected by such downsizing who meet performance expectations shall retain the right to be placed into available full time positions of eighty (80) or more working days per year, for which they are qualified.
8-1-2 Building Assignments
The term building assignment, as applied in this section, means the work site that the REA members are assigned to through the Achievement and Integration
Department Director.
The term building assignment refers to the specific work site or program location an
REA member is assigned to, as determined collaboratively between the
Achievement and Integration Director and Assistant Director
8-2-2 Voluntary Transfers Involving a Position Exchange
This is a transfer request initiated by a REA member who wishes to exchange assignments with other REA members in a different building. Both of the REA
members are required to request for exchange of positions which must be made and approved by, Director of the department of Achievement and Integration, REA
member and the Executive Director for Human Resources.
REA members who wish to change buildings may request a voluntary transfer.
Voluntary transfers include:
1. Transfers effective at the start of the next school year
2. Mid-year transfers (for current-year vacancies)
3. Position exchanges between REA members
All transfer requests must be reviewed and approved by the Director and Assistant
Director of Achievement and Integration, and the REA member.
8-2-3 Exclusion from Voluntary Transfer
REA members who are on a performance improvement plan may not seek a

voluntary transfer without mutual consent of the REA members, Must be made and approved by, Director of the department of Achievement and Integration REA
member and REA union president.
The Director and Assistant Director of Achievement and Integration will determine the initial placement of Robbinsdale Equity Allies. These are district-wide positions, and staff may be moved to different sites based on the needs of the department or district. Staff within the Achievement and Integration Department may transition to other roles within the department based on the needs of the district. REA members will not be reassigned without prior discussion and justification tied to district needs.
REA members who are on a performance improvement plan may not transfer to a different site.
8-3 Involuntary Transfers
8-3-1 Administrative Transfers Due to Unsatisfactory Work on the Part of REA Members
These are transfers that are initiated by the Executive Director of Strategic
Communication, Equity and Inclusion, and the Director of Achievement and
Integration.
Administrative transfers may be made for two reasons:
1. Changes in school enrollment which differ from projections made by the administration prior to the operation of the transfer pools (included in this category are changes in class enrollments which result from actual student registrations)
2. Unsatisfactory work on the part of the REA members; Programmatic needs of the district.
Administrative transfers are initiated by the Director and Assistant Director of Achievement and Integration and should be made only when necessary due to programmatic changes, enrollment shifts, or other substantial reasons.
When an involuntary transfer is proposed, the REA member will be:
● Given written notice and rationale at least ten (10) working days in advance;
● Offered a meeting with the Director of Achievement and Integration and the REA Union
Representative to discuss options;
● Considered for available vacancies that align with their certification, experience, and preference.
Transfers shall not be used as disciplinary action or as a substitute for progressive discipline.
10-2-6 Minnesota Paid Family Leave
Starting January 1, 2026 the district will apply the provisions of the Minnesota Paid
Family Leave, established under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 268B.

12-4 Payroll
REA members will be paid twice per month (15th and end of month). If any pay date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, employees will be paid on the last business day immediately preceding.
13-2 Cafeteria Benefits
Full-time non-licensed Robbinsdale Equity Ally who enrolls in one of the districts
High-Deductible Health Plans (HDHP) will receive a district VEBA or HSA
contribution. The minimum deductible to be considered a HDHP is determined by the IRS each calendar year.Part time non-licensed Robbinsdale Equity Allies who are at least (.5) shall receive a prorated contribution. Married employees jointly enrolling in 1+1 or family health coverage with a High-Deductible Health Plan will both be eligible for VEBA or HSA contributions to their individual accounts.
13-3 Long-Term Disability Income
The School Board will participate in the long-term disability insurance program. The Board/
District will pay 50% or one-half of the annual premium for all full-time REA members who participate in the program and are on the non- cafeteria benefit plan. REA members in the cafeteria plan are responsible to pay for 50% of the premium. The income of the participant, who is forced from work for a long period of time due to reasons of health or accident, will be insured after the 65th missed day out of 130 consecutive workdays, for two-thirds of the
REA members's regular salary up to the policy limit, as long as the LTD claim is approved by the insurance carrier. If the REA members request it, the School Board will pay one-third day salary to those participants who have accumulated more than 65 days of paid time off.
One-third day will be subtracted from the total number of remaining paid time off days until all paid time off has been used in full, or the REA members request such payment be discontinued.
Long Term Disability Insurance is available for part-time staff who work a minimum of 25
hours per week and 36 weeks per year, with the cost to be borne by the employee. REA
members in the cafeteria plan are responsible to pay for 100% of the premium. The income of the participant, who is forced from work for a long period of time due to reasons of health or accident, will be insured after the 90 calendar days out of 130 consecutive work days, or sixty-six point six percent of the Robbinsdale Equity Allies regular salary up to the policy limit, as long as the LTD claim is approved by the insurance carrier. If the REA
members request it, they will pay thirty-three point three percent of the day salary to those participants who have accumulated more than 65 days of paid time off. Thirty-three point three percent of the days will be subtracted from the total number of remaining paid time off days until all paid time off has been used in full, or the REA members request such payment be discontinued.