preaches - Minutes of Business Meeting

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Approved June 15, 2026

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, June 1, 2026, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Welcome and Land Acknowledgement

Call to Order/Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: None. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Brynteson moved to approve the agenda, Wutoh seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

Rdale Proud: Growing through Nature and Outdoor Learning

Emilie Levinson - Director of Early Learning, her team and some students shared how outdoor experiences support young children's emotional well-being, encourage creativity, and foster important social skills such as cooperation, communication, and problem-solving.

Morris Leatherman Survey Data Report and Discussion
Peter Leatherman from the Morris Leatherman Company reviewed the data from the phone survey with district residents.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Hillenbrand seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business

A. Resolution Adopting the 2026-27 Preliminary Budget
MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of the resolution, Bowman seconded.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

New Business
A. Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $22,309.05
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the resolution, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote. .
B. 2026-27 Resolutions for Membership in the Minnesota State High School League (MSHSL)
MOTION: Bassett moved approval of the resolution for membership for Armstrong and waived reading, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.
MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of the resolution for membership for Cooper and waived reading, Wutoh seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Policy

A. Committee Report
Vice Chair Wutoh reviewed the Policy Committee report, and noted the committee's meetings will resume on
August 17, 2026.

B. Second Read (Action) Policies (None for this evening.)
MOTION:

C. First Read Policies
The Board reviewed the following policies as a first read, in preparation for bring to second read/action at the

June 15, 2026 Business Meeting:

701 Policy - Extracurricular Transportation

711 Policy - Video Recording on School Buses

712 Policy - Video Recording other than on School Buses
713 Policy - Student Activity Accounting

720 Policy - Vending Machines

801 Policy - Equal Access to School Facilities

805 Policy - Waste Reduction and Recycling

807 Policy - Health and Safety

901 Policy - Community Education

902 Policy - Use of School District Facilities and Equipment
904 Policy - Distribution of Materials on School District Property by Non-School Persons
905 Policy - Advertising

Administrative Reports

A. Superintendent's Report - Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every
Student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. Highlights of the presentation included:

District Graduation Ceremonies for Robbinsdale Transition Center (RTC), Adult Academic Program (AAP),
Armstrong High School, Robbinsdale Virtual Academy/Highview, and Cooper High School

End-of-year celebrations districtwide

Indian Education Honoring Event recognizing accomplishments of Native students and families

Student Superintendent for a Day - Sebastian Hartzheim, SEA 4th grader

Honoring our staff - retirements and years of service

Teacher of the Year: Claire Mielke, Cooper Visual Arts Teacher and EA of the Year: Lisa Pleban from SEA

Board Committee Reports and Board Reports

This portion of the agenda provides an opportunity for each Board member to do a brief update regarding work pertaining to their Board duties. At this evening's Listening Time, fifteen individuals spoke (and six others submitted requests to speak) regarding the following topics:

Safety, Security, Class Sizes

Financial Advisory Council (FAC) and Grad Rate
Communitcation to parents

EA Negotiations

Listening Session format

Music & arts equity

Community and staff relations

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, and Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote. Meeting adjourned at 9:24 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area § chools

Date: i, es