Summary Minutes of Study Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Reviewed: May 18, 2026

A Study Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, May 11, 2026 at

6:18 p.m.*. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www, ra/discov: hi rd under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

('Meeting originally started at 6:00 p.m., then recessed for a brief break to resolve audio issues.)

Director(s) present: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Welcome and Introductions

Purpose and Agenda
Review of the Board of Education 2025-26 Agenda and Working Document, highlighting the areas to be covered tonight.

District Governance and Policy (None for this evening.)

Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction
A. Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 - Phase I/II Update
1. Secondary Facilities Planning Update
Patrick Archibald, Special Education Supervisor
Jay Hancock, Principal of Sandburg Middle School
Erick Norby, Principal of Armstrong High School
Zoraba Ross, Principal of FAIR School Crystal
Shaunece Smith, Principal of Cooper High School
The secondary administrators shared a presentation regarding tours they did at Mariner Middle School and White
Bear Lake High School, highlighting how that district renovated these buildings to modern learning environments.

Recess: 7:55 p.m.
Resume: 8:02 p.m.

2. Facilities, Programming, and Long-Term Planning
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Dr. Bob McDowell, Assistant Superintendent
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Brent Jones, Nexus Solutions
The team reviewed the timeline, the proposed facilities plan, and the proposed footprint for creating one high school on the Cooper and New Hope Learning Center sites.

Board Governance (None for this evening.)
Superintendent Relations (None for this evening.)
Community Engagement (None for this evening.)
Information Items (None for this evening.)

Study Session concluded at 9:10 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board