Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Reviewed: February 17, 2017
Adopted: February 27, 2017
Revised: May 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
904 POLICY AP: - DISTRIBUTION OF MATERIALS ON SCHOOL DISTRICT PROPERTY BY
NON-SCHOOL PERSONS
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to provide for distribution of materials appropriate to the school setting by non-staff and non-students on school district property in a reasonable time, place, and manner which does not disrupt the educational program nor interfere with the educational objectives of the School District. Permission to distribute materials on school property by non-staff and non-students is a privilege, not a right.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. The school district intends to provide a method for non-school persons and organizations to distribute materials appropriate to the school setting, within the limitations and provisions of this policy.
B. To provide for orderly and non-disruptive distribution of materials, the school board adopts the following regulations and procedures.
C. Permission or denial of permission to distribute materials does not imply approval or disapproval of its contents by the school, the administration or the individual reviewing the documents(s) submitted.
D. The time, place and manner of distribution will be solely within the discretion of the administration, consistent with the provisions of this policy.
III. DEFINITIONS
A. "Distribution" means circulation or dissemination of materials by means of handing out free copies, selling or offering copies for sale, accepting donations for copies, posting or displaying materials, placing materials in internal staff or student mailboxes, or sending materials via electronic means, such as by email.
B. "Materials" includes all materials and objects intended by non-school persons or non-school organizations for distribution. Examples of non-school sponsored materials include but are not limited to leaflets, brochures, buttons, badges, books, flyers, petitions, posters, underground newspapers whether written by students, employees or others, and tangible objects.

C. "Non-school person" means any person who is not currently enrolled as a student in or employed by the school district.
D. "Obscene to minors" means
1. The average person, applying contemporary community standards, would find that the material, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest of minors of the age to whom distribution is requested;
2. The material depicts or describes, in a manner that is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult community concerning how such conduct should be presented to minors of the age to whom distribution is requested, sexual conduct such as intimate sexual acts (normal or perverted), masturbation, excretory functions, and lewd exhibition of the genitals; and
3. The material, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors.
E. "Minor" means any person under the age of eighteen (18).
F. "Material and substantial disruption" of a normal school activity means:
1. Where the normal school activity is an educational program of the school district for which student attendance is compulsory, "material and substantial disruption" is defined as any disruption which interferes with or impedes the implementation of that program.
2. Where the normal school activity is voluntary in nature (including school athletic events, school plays and concerts) "material and substantial disruption" is defined as student rioting, unlawful seizures of property, conduct inappropriate to the event, participation in a school boycott, demonstration, sit-in, stand-in, walk-out, or other related forms of activity. In order for expression to be considered disruptive, there must exist specific facts upon which the likelihood of disruption can be forecast, including past experience in the school, current events influencing student activities and behavior, and instances of actual or threatened disruption relating to the written material in question.
G. "School activities" means any activity sponsored by the school, including but not limited to, classroom work, library activities, physical education classes, official assemblies and other similar gatherings, school athletic contests, band concerts, school plays, other theatrical productions, and in-school lunch periods.
H. "Libelous" is a false and unprivileged statement about a specific individual that tends to harm the individual's reputation or to lower him or her in the esteem of the community.
I. "Proselytizing" means the recruitment to join one's party, institution or cause. Likewise, it means the act of recruiting or converting especially to a faith, institution or cause.

IV. GUIDELINES
A. Non-school persons and organizations may, within the provisions of this policy, be granted permission to distribute, at reasonable times and places as set forth in this policy, and in a reasonable manner, materials and objects which are appropriate to the school setting.
B. In making decisions regarding permission for distribution, the appropriate administration will consider factors including, but not limited to the following:
1. whether the material is educationally related;
2. the extent to which distribution is likely to cause disruption of or interference with the school district's educational objectives, discipline, or school activities;
3. the quantity, size, or frequency of materials to be distributed;
4. whether the materials are a solicitation for goods or services not requested by recipients.
C. Requests for distribution of materials will be reviewed by appropriate administration on a case by case basis. However, distribution of the following materials is always prohibited.
Material is prohibited that:
1. is obscene to minors;
2. is libelous;
3. is pervasively indecent or vulgar or contains any indecent or vulgar language or representations, with a determination made as to the appropriateness of the material for the age level of students to which it is intended;
4. advertises any product or service not permitted to minors by law;
5. advocates violence or other illegal conduct;
6. constitutes insulting or fighting words, the very expression of which injures or harasses other people (e.g. threats of violence, defamation of character or of a person's race, religious, or ethnic origin);
7. presents a clear and present likelihood that, either because of its content or manner of distribution, it will cause a material and substantial disruption of the proper and orderly operation and discipline of the school or school activities, will cause the commission of unlawful acts or the violation of lawful school regulations;
8. contains, in whole or in part, any proselytizing.
9. Contains, in whole or in part, any commercial advertising or political advertising, if distribution is to occur in a non-public forum (during the school day to students

and/or staff).
V. PROCEDURES FOR DISTRIBUTION
A. Requests for distribution of materials at a single building must be approved by the building principal, or designee, with consultation with the district office if necessary.
B. Requests for multiple-building or district-wide distribution must be approved by the
Director of Strategic Communications.
C. Any non-school person wishing to distribute materials must first submit for approval a copy of the materials to the appropriate administration at least five days in advance of desired distribution time, together with the following information:
1. Name and contact information of the person submitting the request;
2. Date(s) and time(s) of day of requested distribution;
3. The building or buildings where the materials are being distributed;
4. If material is intended for students, the grade(s) of students to whom the distribution is intended.
D. ELEMENTARY DISTRIBUTION: When given approval to distribute materials, the approved community organization will, if requested, make available one volunteer to organize and/or distribute materials as directed by the building administrator or designee.
If the organization cannot provide a volunteer, upon request, the printed materials from the organization will be available to interested students and adults in a designated public information area at each school. The school(s) will provide timely notification to organizations if such request is being made.
E. SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION: When given approval to distribute materials, the approved community organization will make available one volunteer to distribute materials from the organization to a designated public information area at each school.
An announcement may be made to the students notifying them of the availability of the materials.
F. All printed materials must contain a disclaimer on the front side of the materials in at least ten point type that contains the following language:
"Robbinsdale Area Schools does not endorse or recommend the activities announced by this publication, and this publication has not been printed at district expense"
G. In the event that permission to distribute materials is denied, the nonschool person or organization may request reconsideration of the decision by the superintendent or designee.
The request for reconsideration must be in writing and must set forth reasons why distribution is desirable and in the best interest of the school community.

VI. VIOLATION OF POLICY
Any party violating this policy or distributing materials without permission will be directed to leave the school property immediately and, if necessary, law enforcement will be called.
Legal References: U. S. Const., amend. I
Hazelwood School District v. Kuhlmeier, 484 U.S. 260, 108 S.Ct. 562, 98
L.Ed.2d 592 (1988)
Doe v. South Iron R-1 School District, 498 F.3d 878 (8th Cir. 2007)
Bystrom v. Fridley High School, 822 F.2d 747 (8th Cir. 1987)
Cornelius v. NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., 473 U.S.
788, 105 S.Ct. 3439, 87 L.Ed.2d 567 (1985)
Perry Education Ass'n v. Perry Local Educators' Ass'n, 460 U.S. 37, 103
S.Ct. 948, 74 L.Ed.2d 794 (1983)
Roark v. South Iron R-1 School Dist., 573 F.3d 556 (8th Cir. 2009)
Cross References: 505AP (Distribution of Nonschool-Sponsored Materials on School Premises by
Students and Employees)
512AP (School-Sponsored Student Publications)
RAS Equity Policy 102.1