To: School Board and Superintendent Staloch
From: Policy Committee
Date: June 1, 2026
Re: Policy Committee Report
The Policy Committee convened on May 20, 2026 to continue its work on reviewing and advancing policies. The policy committee remains committed to ensuring that policies are updated. The policies presented below are up for second read and approval by the school board.
We appreciate the dedication of all involved in this critical work and will continue to provide updates as policies progress through review and approval.
Our next meeting is scheduled for August 17, 2026.
POLICIES FOR FIRST READ
Policy Number
Purpose Policy Change Description of Change and Title
710 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● Removed language in
Extracurricular with Comm Ed Policy section III.
Transportation Arrangement of Extra
Curricular
Transportation
● Updated legal
References
● Added RAS 102.1 Equity
Policy
711 Policy - Video Cycle review with Changing from AP to ● Statue updates in B.
Recording on Finance and Policy Use of Video
School Buses Transportation Recordings
● Added RAS 102.1 Equity
Policy
712 Policy - Video Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● Removed Surveillance
Surveillance Other with Finance and Policy in the Policy Title
Than On Buses Transportation ● Language change in section I. Purpose
● Language Updates in section II. General
Statement of Policy
● A. numbers 2 & 3
● Statue updates in letters B & C
● Updated legal references

● Added RAS 102.1 Equity
Policy
713 Policy - Cycle review with Changing from AP to ● Added RAS 102.1 Equity
Comm Ed Policy Policy
Student Activity
Accounting
720 Policy - Cycle review with Changing from AP to ● Updated language in
Vending Machines Nutrition Services Policy IV Supervision;
Approval; Location letter C
● Statue updated in V.
Contract Approval letter b, c and d.
● Updated language in
VI. Accounting letter C
● Reference Updates
● Added RAS 102.1 Equity
Policy
801 Policy - Equal Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● Updated legal
Access to School with Comm Ed Policy references
Facilities ● Added RAS 102.1 Equity
Policy
805 Policy - Waste Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● Added RAS Policy 102.1
with Facilities Policy Equity
Reduction and team
Recycling
807 Policy - Health Cycle review with ● Updated language in and Safety Safety and Risk II. General Statement
Management of Policy letter B.
added"must" strike through "advisory"
● Added #38 in IV.
Program and Plans
● Updated legal references
● Added RAS 102.1 Equity
Policy
901 Policy - Cycle review with Changing from AP to ● Updated language
Community Comm Ed Policy based on MSBA
Education updates in Section III.
letter D
● Updated legal references
● Added RAS 102.1 Equity
Policy
Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● Updated language
902 Policy- Use of with Comm Ed Policy based on MSBA
School District updates
Facilities and
● Added section III.
Equipment
Scheduled Community

Education Classes and
Activities
● Updated Legal references
● Added RAS 102.1 Equity
Policy
904 Policy - Cycle Review Changing from AP to ● Added RAS 102.1 Equity
Distribution of with HR / Policy Policy
Materials on Strategic
School District Communications
Property by
Non-School
Persons
905 Policy - Cycle review Changing from AP to ● Added RAS 102.1 Equity
Advertising Policy Policy