ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Business Meeting

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Approved November 17, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, November 3, 2025, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Welcome and Land Acknowledgement
Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair

Call to Order and Roll Call
Directors present: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent.
Absent: Bassett. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of the agenda, Wutoh seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 5-0 voice vote.

Comprehensive Achievement and Civic Readiness (CACR) and Achievement and Integration (A&l) Annual
Report and Public Forum

Becky Brodeur, Senior Director of Teaching and Learning and Beth Tepper, Director of Achievement and Integration presented the annual report, followed by questions and comments from the Board. An opportunity for public forum was provided, with no one coming forward to speak.

Rdale Proud: School of Engineering and Arts (SEA) - Outdoor Learning

Principal Hanson, Ms. DeLaCruz, Ms. Hovde, Ms. Kreifels, and students shared information regarding how SEA
integrates hands-on nature-based experiences into learning, connecting students with the natural world while fostering curiosity, collaboration, and innovation.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Wutoh seconded.

Voting for: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 5-1 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business
A. Action: Application for Athletic Cooperative for Armstrong/Cooper Boys Lacrosse
MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the application, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 5-0 roll call vote.
B. Action: School Board Governance Procedure and Handbook
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the School Board Governance Procedure and Handbook, Chair
Evans-Becker seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 5-0 voice vote.

New Business

A. Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) for FY25
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer, introduced Brad Falteysek and Tyler See from Abdo Solutions.
Mr. Falteysek and Mr. See presented a final review of the ACFR for FY25, and recommended moving for approval at the Novemer 17, 2025 Business Meeting.

B. Resolution for Acceptance of Donations in the amount of $20,929.00
MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the Resolution for Acceptance of Donations, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 5-0 roll call vote.

C. Action: Change to 2025-26 School Board Meeting Calendar - moving first June Meeting from Tuesday, June 2,
2026 to Monday, June 1, 2025
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the change to the School Board Meeting Calendar, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 5-0 voice vote.

Policy

Director Wutoh noted the last meeting was October 29, 2025. The committee shared the Substantive Policy Change
Request Procedure for all directors to follow to propose substantive revisions to existing board policies. The following policies were reviewed, and had first reads after the Committee Report:

First Read Policies:

e 210 Policy - Conflict of Interest School Board Members

e 211 Policy - Criminal or Civil Action Against School District, School Board Member, Employee, or Student

e 305 Policy - Policy Implementation

e 515 Policy - Protection and Privacy of Student Records

e 709 Policy - Student Transportation Safety

The intent is for these policies to come forward for second read/action at the Business Meeting on November 17,
2025.

Administrative Reports
A. Superintendent's Report - Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. Highlights of the presentation included:
e Sonnesyn Elementary as recipient of the 2025 Minnesota's Future Award for Excellence in Literacy
Instruction - a statewide honor from the Minnesota Business Partnership that included a $50,000 award e The Quill student newspaper of Cooper won an All-State Gold Award for the nine issues released in the
2024-25 school year from the MN High School Press Association for the second consecutive year - with four student staff members also winning state awards in various categories e Moses Kamara, a senior at Armstrong was named Mr. Soccer for Class AAA by the MN State High School
Soccer Coaches Association, also named to the AIl-MN boys soccer team by the Star Tribuned for the second consecutive year - recording 26 goals and four assists this season, and 71 total goals in his four years at Armstrong e Rdale was one of three metro districts invited to attend the Tribal Nations Education Committee inaugural professional development event - recognized for authentic partnership with American Indian students, families and leaders and commended for modeling community-centered leadership across the metro e Armstrong Activities Director Larry Tate was named the 2025 Region 6AA Activities Administrator (AD) of the
Year by the MN Interscholastic Activities Administrators Association, and is eligible to be selected as the
Class AA AD of the Year next spring e November 3-4, 2025 Professional Development days e Kindergarten Enrollment Fair coming up Saturday, Nov. 22 from 10 a.m.-noon at FAIR School Crystal
B. Morris Leatherman Survey Data Report
Peter Leatherman provided a presentation reviewing the data from a recent phone survey with district residents.
C. Vision 2030/Statutory Operating Debt (SOD) Plan Work
Dr. Staloch, Dr. McDowell, and Ms. Hoheisel provided additional information regarding the Phase | options and
SOD Plan - with adjusted timeline options to choose from.
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved to bring the facility recommendations for approval for publication on November 17,
2025, Bowman seconded.
Voting in favor: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 4-1 roll call vote.

Board Committee Reports and Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Bowman facilitated the Listening Time held at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Ten individuals submitted requests and spoke in regard to the following topics:

e Introduction to Seven Dreams Education Foundation new Executive Director, Emily Noyes

SEA/FAIR magnet status

What makes Sonnesyn special (including: literacy success, Catalyst Approach impacting school culture)
Proposed school closings

Consideration of Special Education in location consolidation plans

Request for edit to Policy 599AP, section V. Provision for Automatic Enrollment, A. Siblings

Auditorium at RMS if building closes

Support for Vision Team recommendations

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved to adjourn the meeting, Chair Evans-Becker seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 5-0 voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 10:39 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed:

7 Date: Mt, (7 [202s

ReNae J. Bowpian, School Board Clerk, ISD 281