Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Approved February 23, 2015
Revised: May 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
720AP POLICY - VENDING MACHINES
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this administrative procedure is to establish procedures to govern vending machines installed in school facilities in the school district.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
It is the administrative procedure of the school district to contract for, supervise, maintain, and account for the proceeds from vending machines located in school facilities in a manner that is fair, that maximizes the revenues from those machines, that allows those revenues to be included in the budget of the facility in which they are generated, and that establishes controls to avoid fraud, theft, or the appearance of impropriety.
III. AUTHORIZATION
Automatic vending machines for the dispensing of food, beverages, or other approved items are authorized in any school facility in the school district provided that all contracts for such vending machines must be approved by the school board as provided in this administrative procedure.
IV. SUPERVISION; APPROVAL; LOCATION
A. All vending machines shall be under the supervision of the school principal or other person in charge of the facility in which the machine is located. That administrator shall be responsible to supervise the machine in compliance with this administrative procedure and any applicable laws.
B. Machines dispensing cigarettes or tobacco products are not authorized under any circumstances. In the event a written complaint is filed with the superintendent regarding the approval or disapproval of any item, the school board, after proper review, shall make the final determination.
C. Vending machines may be approved that will dispense items approved under USDA's "All
Foods Sold in Schools" standards and only during certain hours, through the use of timers or otherwise. Vending machines should not be operated in competition with the school cafeteria or food service. The principal or other person in charge of the school facility may regulate the hours of operation of any machine.
D. Vending machines shall be located to meet any applicable building, fire, or life/safety codes and to provide convenience of operation, accessibility, and ease of maintenance.

The principal or other person in charge of the facility shall review the location of each machine with appropriate maintenance and food service staff.
V. CONTRACT APPROVAL
A. All contracts for the purchase or rental of vending machines shall be considered by the school board on a facility-by-facility basis.
B. If it is estimated that the aggregate receipts from all vending machines located in a school facility will be $25,000 or more in a fiscal year, the contract for any vending machine in that facility must be awarded after the receipt of sealed bids and compliance with Minn.
Stat. § Minnesota Statutes section 123B.52.
C. If it is estimated that the aggregate receipts from all vending machines located in a school facility will be less than $25,000 in a fiscal year, the contract for any vending machine in that facility may be awarded after the receipt of two or more quotations after taking into consideration conformity with the specifications, terms of delivery, other conditions imposed in the call for quotations, and compliance with Minn. Stat. § Minnesota Statutes section 123B.52.
D. The contracting process shall be conducted in compliance with Minn. Stat. § Minnesota
Statutes section 123B.52. A copy of this policy shall be included in any specifications or request for proposals or quotations. A record shall be kept of all proposals or quotations received with the names, amounts, and successful bidder indicated. All proposals and quotations shall be kept on file as a public record for a period of at least one year after their receipt.
E. Any proposal or quotation must specify all commissions to be paid from the machine and any other noncommission amounts to be paid as a result of the award of the contract.
The noncommission amounts include, but are not limited to, cash payments, in-kind payments, equipment donations, scholarship contributions, bonus payments, or other payments or contributions of any kind or nature. The noncommission amounts shall be reduced to a cash equivalency and shall be specified on the proposal or quotation as an additional amount to be paid for the award of the contract.
F. If a contract contains a provision allowing exclusivity, such as all machines in the building carrying only a certain manufacturer's brand of pop, that provision must be reviewed by the administration prior to requesting proposals or quotations to ensure that it does not conflict with other contracts of the school district.
G. All contracts for vending machines must be approved by the school board. Any contract not made in compliance with this policy shall be void. Any district employee signing an unauthorized contract may be subject to personal liability thereon and may be disciplined for said action.
H. All vending machines are to be installed at the expense of the facility in which located.
All financial responsibility for the maintenance and repair of machines shall remain with the individual facility in which located to the extent not addressed in the contract.

I. No teacher, administrator, school district employee, or school board member shall be interested, directly or indirectly, in a vending machine contract with the school district or personally benefit financially therefrom.
VI. ACCOUNTING
A. Proceeds from vending machine sales and contracts shall be under the control of the school board, shall be accounted for in one of the regular school district funds, and must be accounted for and reported in compliance with UFARS.
B. An amount equal to the amount of the proceeds from the machines in each facility shall be included in the budget of the facility in which the proceeds are generated. That amount may be expended in accordance with established expenditure procedures.
C. Pursuant to the vending machine contract or otherwise, proper auditing and inventory control procedures shall be established to ensure that commissions are being correctly calculated and paid. These controls must include daily, weekly, or other periodic inventories and written reconciliations of variances between inventory and cash. The vending machine contractor is responsible for stocking, removing cash and reconciling the inventory and cash amounts on a regular basis. A monthly report is submitted to the finance office with the commissions earned, which are recorded in each facility's revenue account. Each time cash is removed from, or inventory is added to a machine, a written reconciliation between cash and inventory must be performed by the person taking the cash from the machine and must be signed by the principal or other person in charge of the facility. The original written reconciliation reports shall be filed with the business office monthly and a copy shall be retained by the principal's office.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 123B.20 (Dealing in School Supplies)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.52 (Contracts)
Minn. Stat. § 471.345 (Contracts Uniform Municipal Contracting Law)
Minn. Stat. § 471.87 (Conflict of Interest Public Officers, Interest in Contract;
Penalty)
Cross References: 210AP (Conflict of Interest - School Board Members)
702AP (Accounting)
RAS Equity Policy 102.1