Superintendent's
End-of-Year
Evaluation
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
June 15, 2026

Transformational Leadership
Purpose Statement
"I lead to inspire, empower, and develop others to thrive so that we can create life chances, equitable outcomes, and a sense of belonging for all learners through trust, service, authenticity, and love."
~ Teri Staloch

Our Mission
The mission of
Robbinsdale Area Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

GOAL 1
Successfully implement School Board direction on the future of Robbinsdale Area Schools based on School Board study and stakeholder input (including recommendations of the Reimagine Rdale 2030 Vision Team).

Goal 1: Evidence of Performance 1
The superintendent will provide a plan of action outlining the development and improvement of systems as the beginning stages of the vision of academics, teaching and learning, and the student experience.
● Foundational work of guaranteed and viable curriculum and instructional excellence
● Portrait of Our Learner
● Arts and Innovation Identity
● District systems for consistency to improve academics, teaching and learning, and the student experience: MTSS, common course file, master schedules, instructional minutes, collaboration, standards alignment, data

Goal 1: Evidence of Performance 2
The superintendent will lead the process design and implementation of school closures and/or consolidations, to include school attendance boundary adjustments and staffing changes, and provide documentation of the process and outcome.
● 24 School Board presentations (SOD and
Reimagine Rdale) since Vision Team
Recommendations on September 23, 2025
● Closure of three schools and ended one magnet program (boundaries, enrollment, transportation)
● Implemented new staffing processes
● Project management of complex transitions and comprehensive communication

Goal 1: Evidence of Performance 3
If directed by the Board, the superintendent will lead the process to establish a bond referendum for future facility improvements and provide documentation of the process and timeline.
● Led process to take direction from the Board to plan forward over the past year
● Timelines were adhered to
● Community engagement
● Ongoing communication
● Partnerships: facilities, surveys

Goal 1: Impact
● Clarifying academic systems and expectations
● Implementing the direction of the school board for planning
● Leading with a sustained focus on student learning
● Leading through transformation and change
● Building the foundation for a community decision

GOAL 2
Provide leadership to create and implement an approved
Statutory Operating Debt (SOD) Plan.

Goal 2: Evidence of Performance 1
An SOD Plan will be created, documented, and submitted to the Minnesota Department of Education (MDE) by Jan. 31,
2026.
● School Board Presentations
● Listening Sessions
● Community Meetings
● School closure decisions
● $8M in budget reductions

Goal 2: Evidence of Performance 2
The superintendent will support and provide leadership for the implementation of the SOD Plan.
● Implemented budget reductions
● Implemented Finance Framework Process
● Organizational restructuring to support reductions
● Adjustments based on contract negotiations for eight of nine groups
● Forecasting future reductions of five-year plan

Goal 2: Impact
● Community members, staff, and students reported feeling "seen," "heard," and
"valued
● Leadership in SOD Plan Implementation
● $10M in budget reductions
● Operational demands and a culture of care
● Long-range planning

GOAL 3
Provide leadership to implement the District System of
Continuous Improvement.

Goal 3: Evidence of Performance 1
The superintendent will lead and collaborate with her team to provide progress and monitoring reports at board meetings inclusive of district priority work, school improvement plans, the district scorecard, student achievement data, and student engagement data.
● Consistent data tracking systems in attendance and discipline
● 12 district priority teams presented at school board meetings
● Completed the District Balanced Scorecard
● Administered staff and caregiver surveys

Goal 3: Impact
● Deepened a culture of shared learning, reflection, and high expectations
● District Priority Work Leadership and data progress updates to School Board
● Increased student engagement opportunities
● Collaborative approach to School and
Department Improvement plans

GOAL 4
Invest in improving culture, climate, and trust with staff, families, and community members.

Goal 4: Evidence of Performance 1
The superintendent will engage with internal and external stakeholders to ensure district communication, resources, and information regarding the Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 Plan are well known and input and perspective are gathered to help inform decision-making. Evidence will include at least three engagements and opportunities for input and feedback to inform final decisions.
● Communication in multiple forms to families, staff, community members
● Community engagement to inform decisions
○ SOD and school closures
○ Portrait of Our Learner
○ Operationalizing Vision 2030

Goal 4: Evidence of Performance 2
The superintendent will deliver to the Board a document that outlines involvement at community and school district events, including visits to schools, classrooms, and student activities.
● Community-Related Engagements
● District and School-Related
Engagements
● Staff Meetings
● Student Events

Goal 4: Impact
● Sharing our story
● Investment and Pride
● Accessible and present
● Better decisions are made with multiple perspectives

Leadership Matters: Striving for Excellence
From "FAKE GRASS" to Excellence and Transformation!

Leadership Matters:
High Expectations and High Levels of Support
● Fake Grass
● Take Yourself On
● Reimagine Rdale
● Potential
● Transformation!

TAKE
YOURSEL.F
Believe
Belong
Become
ROBBINSDALE
2025-26 Area Schools school year
R
R
ROBBINSDALE
Area
Schools

Thank you!