MI RoBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved June 1, 2026

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, May 18, 2026, beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."
Welcome and Land Acknowledgement

Call to Order/Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Approval of the Agenda
MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of the agenda, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

District 281 Youth Council

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics, and Activities

Dr. Anne Beaton, Armstrong AP seminar Teacher and BARR Coordinator

Christianne Johnson, Youth Development & Enrichment Manager

Members of the District 281 Youth Council (D281YC)

D281YC provided an update and recommendations for supporting students' sense of belonging during transition occurring in the district.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.

Brynteson requested removal of item 5.A.1. 2025-2027 Teachers Tentative Agreement, and 5.A.3. Building
Improvement Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Bids - RSI Secure Entry Improvements Contract Award
Recommendation for discussion. Bassett requested removal of item 5.A.6. Meeting Minutes for discussion
MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of the Consent Agenda items - excluding items 5.A.1., 5.A.3., and 5.A.6.,
Bassett seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of Item 5.A.1. 2025-2027 Teacher Tentative Agreement, Hillenbrand seconded.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long

Abstaining: Brynteson (conflict - paid from teacher contract - coaching), Wutoh (conflict - wife on teacher contract)
Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote.

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of Item 5.A.3. Building Improvement LTFM Bid - RSI Secure Entry Improvements
Contract Award Recommendation, Brynteson seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Abstaining: Long (not enough information)

Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote.

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of Item 5.A.6. Meeting Minutes, Bassett seconded.

Voting in favor: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, Wutoh

Voting against: Bassett

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business
A. Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 Phase //Il Update
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Dr. Bob McDowell, Assistant Superintendent
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Brent Jones, Nexus Solutions
Reviewed the timeline, proposed facilities plan, and interior renderings of proposed building renovations.

New Business
A. FY27 Preliminary Budget and Resolution
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Ms. Hoheisel reviewed the FY27 preliminary budget and resolution, which is recommended to move to action at

the June 1, 2026 Business Meeting.

B. Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $23,998.15
MOTION: Bassett moved approval of the donations, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote.

Policy
A. Committee Report - Dr. Kenneth Wutoh, School Board Vice Chair
The Policy Committee's next meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, May 20, 2026 at 5:00 p.m.
B. Second Read (Action) Policies (None for this evening.)
C. First Read Policies for Review (None for this evening.)

Administrative Reports (None for this evening.)

Future Events
Available on our website.

Adjournment
MOTION: Wutoh moved to adjourn the meeting, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 9:16 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Date: AL 0 2G