Superintendent's
Board Report
Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent
Robbinsdale Area Schools
June 1, 2026

Mission
The mission of Robbinsdale Area
Schools is to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community.

Successful Graduation Season!
The Robbinsdale Area Schools community has come together to celebrate the Class of 2026:
● Robbinsdale Transition Center (RTC)
● Adult Academic Program (AAP)
● Armstrong High School
● Robbinsdale Virtual Academy (RVA)
● Cooper High School
Robbinsdale Transition Center

Successful Graduation Season!
Adult Academic Program Armstrong High School

Successful Graduation Season!
Robbinsdale Virtual Academy Cooper High School

End-of-Year Celebrations
Celebrations big and small marked the end of the 2025-26 school year.
● Celebrations across elementary, middle, and high schools
● Student send-offs and promotion events
● Staff appreciation and senior traditions
● Moments that reflect growth,
Early Learning belonging, and connection

End-of-Year Celebrations
SEA Graduate Parade Neill Elementary School

End-of-Year Celebrations
FAIR School Pilgrim Lane Noble Elementary School

Honoring Indigenous Students
Our Indian Education Honoring
Event recognized the accomplishments of Native students and families
● Annual celebration of
Indigenous student success
● Hosted by our Indian Education
Program
● Families, staff, and community members gathered in support

Superintendent for a Day
On May 18, the district had a student Superintendent for a Day!
Sebastian Hartzheim, fourth grader from SEA, spent time shadowing Superintendent Staloch.

Honoring Our Staff
We're celebrating retirements and years of service across the district-with deep gratitude for all who've given so much to our schools.
● Districtwide recognition of staff milestones
● Celebrating decades of dedication and impact
● Special congratulations to
Jennifer Ellison at Zachary Lane
Elementary and Dorothy Gelting at Crystal Learning Center for 40
years of service to Rdale!

Celebrating Excellent Educators
Congratulations to Cooper High School's
Claire Mielke-named the 2026
Robbinsdale Teacher of the Year!
● Art teacher at CHS since 2013
● Recognized for her passion, dedication, and empowerment of students through art
● Honored at May 21 celebration hosted by RFT & Seven Dreams

Celebrating Excellent Educators
Congratulations to Lisa Pleban of School of Engineering and Arts-named the
2026 Education Assistant of the Year!
● Tutor EA at SEA for four years
● Celebrated for being a consistent source of support in school and her warmth, positivity and joy.
● Honored at May 21 event hosted by
RFT & Seven Dreams

An amazing 2025-26 school year