Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Adopted: January 12, 2015
Reviewed and Revised: April 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
711 POLICY - VIDEO RECORDING ON SCHOOL BUSES
I. PURPOSE
The transportation of students to and from school is an important function of the school district, and transportation by the school district is a privilege and not a right for an eligible student.
The behavior of students and employees on the bus is a significant factor in the safety and efficiency of school bus transportation. Student and employee misbehavior increases the potential risks of injury. Therefore, the school district believes that video recording student passengers and employees on the school bus will encourage good behavior and, as a result, promote safety.
The purpose of this policy is to establish a school bus video recording system.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. Placement
1. Each and every school bus owned, leased, contracted, and/or operated by the school district shall be equipped with a fully enclosed box for placement and operation of a video camera and conspicuously placed signs notifying riders that their conversations or actions may be recorded.
2. A video camera will not necessarily be installed in each and every school bus owned, leased, contracted, and/or operated by the school district, but cameras may be rotated from bus to bus without prior notice to students.
3. Video cameras will be placed on a particular school bus, to the extent possible, where the school district has received complaints of inappropriate behavior.
B. Use of Video Recordings
1. A video recording of the actions of student passengers and/or employees may be used by the school district as evidence in any disciplinary action brought against any student or employee arising out of the student's or employee's conduct on the bus.
2. A video recording will be released only in conformance with the Minnesota
Government Data Practices Act, Minnesota Statutes chapter Minn. Stat. Ch. 13
and the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, 20 United States Code section
U.S.C. §1232g and the rules and/or regulations promulgated thereunder.
3. Video recordings will be viewed by school district personnel on a random basis and/or when discipline problems on the bus have been brought to the attention of

the school district.
4. A video recording will be retained by the school district until relooped or until the conclusion of disciplinary proceedings in which the video recording is used for evidence.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. Ch. 13 (Minnesota Government Data Practices Act)
Minn. Stat. § 121A.585 (Notice of Recording Device)
Minn. Stat. § 138.17 (Government Records, Administration)
Minn. Rules Parts 1205.0100-1205.2000 (Data Practices)
20 U.S.C. § 1232g (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act)
34 C.F.R. §§ 99.1-99.67 (Family Educational Rights and Privacy)
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 403 (Discipline, Suspension, and Dismissal of School
District Employees)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 406 (Public and Private Personnel Data)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 502 (Search of Student Lockers, Desks, Personal
Possessions, and Student's Person
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 506 (Student Discipline)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 515 (Protection and Privacy of Pupil Records)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 709 (Student Transportation Safety Policy)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 712 (Video Surveillance Other Than on Buses)
RAS Equity Policy 102.1
403AP (Discipline, Suspension, and Dismissal of School District Employees) Policy 406 (Public and
Private Personnel Data)
Policy 502 (Search of Student Lockers, Desks, Personal Possessions, and
Student's Person)
506AP (Student Discipline)
Policy 515 (Protection and Privacy of Pupil Records)
Policy 709 (Student Transportation Safety Policy)
712AP (Video Surveillance Other Than on Buses)
MSBA Service Manual, Chapter 2, Transportation