2026 Legislative
Update
School Board Business Meeting
Anthony Williams & Kristen Hoheisel
June 15, 2026

PURPOSE
The purpose of this presentation is to share information with the Board of Education and the community about the district's 2026 Legislative
Platform and the outcome of the Legislative
Session.

2026 Legislative Platform
● Enhance Student-Centered Learning
● Modernize Long-Term Facilities
Maintenance Revenue to Address
Aging Infrastructure
● Expand Safe Schools Revenue and
Modernize Its Uses
● Institute Tax Equalization
● Oppose Unfunded Mandates and
Ensure Adequate Implementation
Resources

2026 Legislative Platform Summary
Robbinsdale Area Schools' 2026 Legislative Platform focused on five key strategic priorities to support student success and district stability.
    
Student-Centered Modernizing LTFM Safe Schools Tax Equalization Opposing
Learning Revenue Revenue Unfunded
Mandates
A number of bills were introduced this session that aligned with the district's legislative priorities. While most did not make the final cut, these issues remain critical to the long-term success of our students, schools, and community. We will continue advocating for progress in these areas to ensure districts have the flexibility, resources, and funding needed to meet the evolving needs of students and families.

District Impact
Compensatory Revenue (FY28) Anonymous Threat Reporting
Districts may allocate up to 40% to school sites Policy adoption by June 30, 2027; implementation under a board adopted plan. of local/state system by July 1, 2028.
Health Insurance Data
Operating Capital Revenue
Survey data collection and reporting
May be used to pay utility service costs.
requirements.
Tax Base Replacement Behavioral Health Grant
Seasonal tax base replacement aid provisions. School-based behavioral health grant updates.

Permanent School Trust Transfer
A November election will ask voters to consider a constitutional amendment to allow an increase to be paid from the Permanent School Trust Fund (PSTF) to:
● Schools
● Districts
● Charters
The amendment aims to increase the statutory distribution amount up to 4.5%.

Anonymous Threat Reporting
System
By June 30, 2027, school boards must adopt a policy for an anonymous threat reporting system and notify MDE of their selection:
Option 1 Option 2 Option 3
Local anonymous threat Used and promoted the Neither implemented local nor reporting system statewide system used statewide system
Reporting: MDE will report the list of selections to the legislature annually starting January 15,
2028.
Implementation: Chosen systems must be fully implemented by July 1, 2028.

Student & School Safety
Grooming Prevention & Criminal Laws
PELSB Authority: Authority granted to suspend Mandatory Notification: Police/sheriffs must or revoke licenses for educators convicted of notify licensing agencies if an educator is grooming. charged with grooming crimes.
Criminal Statute: Grooming added as a felony Reporter Training: DCYF and MDE must update under criminal sexual conduct, including school mandated reporter training to specifically reflect employee provisions. grooming.
Investment: $1,450,000 annual appropriation to MDE to increase investigator capacity for the
Student Maltreatment Program (SMP) team.

Other Policy Provisions
Veterans Diplomas: LEAs can now issue High Teacher Preparation: Programs must require
School Diplomas for Veterans of the Korean and supervised early literacy field experience for all
Vietnam wars. candidates.
Paraprofessional Qualifications: Foster Care Priority:
LEAs may use a competency grid to verify Highest enrollment priority in community ed qualifications. MDE guidance is expected by Aug. programs. Districts may request verifying
1, 2026. documentation.

Questions?