Summary Minutes of Study Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed: June 15, 2026

A Study Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, June 8, 2026 at

6:03 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Welcome and Introductions

Purpose and Agenda
Review of the Board of Education 2025-26 Agenda and Working Document, highlighting the areas to be covered tonight.

District Governance and Policy (None for this evening.)

Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction

A. Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 - Additional Information and Discussion
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Dr. Bob McDowell, Assistant Superintendent
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
The team reviewed review and comment options, providing rationale and recommendations for each, followed by discussion - in preparation for bringing to action at the Business Meeting on June 15, 2026.

B. 2027-28 District 281 10-Year Long-Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Levy Plan
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Ms. Hoheisel reviewed the documents regarding ensuring our participation in the LTFM revenue program, inclusion on the Payable 2027 tax levy, and providing funding for expenditures in the 2027-28 school year - in preparation for bringing to action at the Business Meeting on June 15, 2026.

Board Governance (None for this evening.)
Superintendent Relations (None for this evening.)
Community Engagement (None for this evening.)
Information Items (None for this evening.)

Study Session concluded at 8:46 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board