To: School Board & Superintendent
From: Shannon Morris, Q-Comp Coordinator
Date: June 1, 2026 - Consent Agenda
Re: Q-Comp Annual Report
2025-26 Robbinsdale Q-Comp Annual Report
Q-Comp is a school improvement model that focuses on teacher effectiveness and student achievement. It provides monetary incentives to reward teachers for working toward raising student achievement.
The three components of our plan I am reporting on are: school improvement goals, professional learning communities, and the teacher review process. In addition, I will share findings from our
Annual Review that was completed in May.
School Improvement (Site) Goals
● In Robbinsdale we write site goals based on the results of the MCA and Fastbridge assessments. SMART goals are set using reading or math data.
● Site goals were set in September and submitted by October 1st
● MCA data becomes available October 2026. At that time site goal attainment will be reviewed and verified.
Professional Learning Communities (PLCs)
PLCs are collaborative work teachers engage in to improve classroom instruction to increase student achievement.
● PLCs met weekly in person or virtually from September 2025 through May 2026
● PLCs wrote annual SMART goals focused on increasing student achievement. These goals are aligned to building site goals.
● PLC goals are approved by administrators.
● Our PLCs have performance pay tied to PLC participation and goal attainment .
● Interview data from the Annual Review and Survey Data revealed:
● Educators understand purpose, goals, size, composition, meeting time and goal setting in
PLCs.
○ Teachers gave examples of how PLC work impacts instruction and how it connects to classroom practice
● Survey responses to "How has your instructional practice changed as a result of your PLC
Work?"
○ "I have improved and implemented more fluency as a result of PLC discussions and work."
○ "I was able to consult and get feedback regarding curriculum and individual situations allowing a more holistic approach to teaching SEL"
○ "My instructional practice has become more focused and purposeful through PLC work. I
increased the use of small-group instruction, reading routines, and progress-monitoring tools to better support student reading growth."

Peer Review
All staff are observed or evaluated. Administrators evaluate all probationary educators three times a year. Peer Coaches observe continuing contract staff twice a year with the exception of the summative evaluation. Summative evaluations (also referred to as high cycle evaluations) are conducted by administrators once every three years with continuing contract educators
● The Robbinsdale teacher review process involves three, live, 45 minute observations in addition to a 30 minute pre-conference and 30 minute post conference
● Feedback is provided using the 2022 Charlotte Danielson Framework for Teaching
● Educators set professional growth goals. These goals are observed and/or discussed during every observation cycle
● The percentage of educators who were awarded performance pay by meeting proficiency standards is not yet available
● During the Annual Review/Survey, educators shared how reflecting on an observation improves classroom practice
○ "I recognize the importance of relationships even in a small group pull out setting."
○ "I take into account the feedback to better deliver my instruction. I am more aware of how I
ask questions, timing of feedback, etc"
○ "Having the opportunity to deeply reflect on my practice is always valuable, this challenges me to think of the purpose of each lesson and how students are responding and where I
may need to make adjustments. "
In summary, our coaching model continues to focus on supporting teachers to improve instruction. Data from 2025-26 provides insight into student achievement that we can build on.
We will continue to modify and adjust our Q-Comp plan as needed. The Q-Comp Annual Review focuses on implementation and compliance to our Q-Comp plan. It helps identify successes and areas for improvement. All buildings must be reviewed once every four years. The review took place from April 22nd to May 1st six buildings/programs were interviewed and a survey was sent to all educators. Teams interviewed a variety of PLCs using the scripted protocol provided by MDE.
The data from the review will be used to modify and adjust our plan for years to come.