Independent School District 281,
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Reviewed: October 29, 2014
Adopted: October 29, 2014
Revised: May 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
902 POLICY AP: - USE OF SCHOOL DISTRICT FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this administrative procedure policy is to provide guidelines for community use of school facilities and equipment.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
The school district encourages maximum use of school facilities and equipment for community purposes if, in its judgment, that use will not interfere with use for school purposes.
III. SCHEDULED COMMUNITY EDUCATION CLASSES AND ACTIVITIES
A. The school district administration shall be charged with the process of scheduling rooms and special areas for community education classes and activities planned to be offered during each session.
B. Procedures for providing publicity, registration, and collection of fees shall be the responsibility of the school district administration.
C. Registration fees may be structured to include a pro-rata portion of costs for custodial services that may be needed.
IV. GENERAL COMMUNITY USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES
A. The school district may authorize the use of school facilities by community groups or individuals. It may impose reasonable regulations and conditions upon the use of school facilities as it deems appropriate.
B. Requests for use of school facilities by community groups or individuals shall be made through the school district facility scheduler's office. Procedures for the processing and review of requests shall be posted on the district website.
C. The school district may require a rental fee for the use of school facilities. Such fee may include the cost of custodial and supervisory service if deemed necessary. It may also require a deposit for the proper use and repair of damage to school facilities. A rental fee schedule annually approved by the school district board, deposit, and payment procedure shall be posted on the district website.

D. When emergencies or unusual circumstances arise that necessitate rescheduling the use of school facilities, every effort will be made to find acceptable alternative meeting space.
IV. USE OF SCHOOL EQUIPMENT
A schedule of equipment that is available for community use, the extent to which it may be utilized, and the manner by which it may be scheduled for use and any charges to be made will be available through the facility scheduler's office.
V. RULES FOR USE OF FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
The school district expects members of the community who use facilities and equipment to do so with respect for school district property and an understanding of proper use. Individuals and groups shall be responsible for damage to facilities and equipment. A certificate of insurance may be required by the school district to ensure payment for these damages and any liability for injuries.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 123B.51 (Schoolhouses and Sites; Use For School and Nonschool
Purposes; Closings) Access for Noncurricular Purposes)
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 801AP (Equal Access to School Facilities)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 901AP (Community Education)
RAS Equity Policy 102.1