Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Adopted: January 20, 2015
Revised: May 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
901 POLICY - AP COMMUNITY EDUCATION
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to convey to employees and to the general public the important role of community education within the school district.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
The school board affirms a strong commitment to the community education program. The school board welcomes, and strongly encourages use of school buildings and activity areas by the community when not used for regularly scheduled elementary and secondary programs.
The school administration should strive to accomplish the following objectives:
A. Maximum use should be made of public school facilities within the school district service area.
B. Educational needs and interest of area residents should be determined periodically.
C. Community resources and expertise of residents should be utilized to develop a vibrant, well-rounded community education program.
D. Area residents should be encouraged to actively participate in program opportunities.
III. COMMUNITY EDUCATION ADVISORY COUNCIL
A. The council shall assist in promoting the goals and objectives of the program.
B. The membership of the community education advisory council will consist of members who represent: various service organizations; churches; public and nonpublic schools; local government including elected officials; public and private nonprofit agencies serving youth and families; parents; youth; park, recreation or forestry services of municipal or local government units located in whole or in part within the boundaries of the school district; and any other groups participating in the community education program in the school district.
C. Bylaws of the community education advisory council shall provide the framework for the organization including criteria pertaining to membership, officers' duties, frequency and structure of meetings and such other matters as deemed necessary and appropriate.
D. The council will adopt a policy that encourages coordination efforts with city park and

recreation departments, and other community organizations, to minimize program duplication to reduce and eliminate program duplication within the school district
Legal References: Minn. Stat. § 123B.51 (Schoolhouses and Sites; Use for School and Nonschool
Purposes; Closings) Access for Noncurricular Purposes)
Minn. Stat. § 124D.19, Subd. 1 (Community Education Programs; Advisory
Council)
Minn. Stat. § 124D.20, Subd. 1 (Community Education Revenue)
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy District Administrative Procedure 902 (Use of School District Facilities and Equipment)
RAS Equity Policy 102.1