Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Approved and Adopted: May 15, 2017
Revised: May 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
807 POLICY - HEALTH AND SAFETY
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to assist the school district in promoting health and safety, reducing injuries, and complying with federal, state, and local health and safety laws and regulations.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. The policy of the school district is to implement a health and safety program that includes plans and procedures to protect employees, students, volunteers, and members of the general public who enter school district buildings and grounds. The objective of the health and safety program will be to provide a safe and healthy learning environment; to increase safety awareness; to help prevent accidents, illnesses, and injuries; to reduce liability; to assign duties and responsibilities to school district staff to implement and maintain the health and safety program; to establish written procedures for the identification and management of hazards or potential hazards; to train school district staff on safe work practices; and to comply with all health and safety, environmental, and occupational health laws, rules, and regulations.
B. All school district employees have a responsibility for maintaining a safe and healthy environment within the school district and are expected to be involved in the health and safety program to the extent practicable. For the purpose of implementing this policy, the school district must may form a health and safety advisory committee to be composed of employees and other individuals with specific knowledge of related issues. The health and safety advisory committee will provide recommendations to the administration regarding plans and procedures to implement this policy and to establish procedures for identifying, analyzing, and controlling hazards, minimizing risks, and training school district staff on safe work practices. The committee will also recommend procedures for investigating accidents and enforcement of workplace safety rules.
III. PROCEDURES
A. Based upon the recommendations from the health and safety committee and subject to the budget adopted by the school board to implement or maintain these recommendations, the administration will adopt and implement written plans and procedures for identification and management of hazards or potential hazards existing within the school district in accordance with federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations. Written plans and procedures will be maintained, updated, and reviewed by the school district on an annual basis. The school district shall identify a contact person to oversee compliance with each specific plan or procedure.

B. To the extent that federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations do not exist for identification and management of hazards or potential hazards, the health and safety committee shall evaluate other available resources and generally- accepted best practice recommendations. Best practices are techniques or actions which, through experience or research, have consistently proven to lead to specific positive outcomes.
C. The school district shall monitor and make good faith efforts to comply with any new or amended laws, rules, or regulations to control potential hazards.
IV. PROGRAM AND PLANS
A. For the purpose of implementing this policy, the administration will, within the budgetary limitations adopted by the school board, implement a health and safety program that includes specific plan requirements in various areas as identified by the health and safety committee. Areas that may be considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
1. Asbestos
2. Fire and Life Safety
3. Lighting
4. Structural Safety
5. Combustible and Hazardous Materials Storage
6. Indoor Air Quality
7. Mechanical Ventilation
8. Mold Cleanup and Abatement
9. Accident and Injury Reduction Program: Model AWAIR Program for Minnesota
Schools
10. Infectious Waste/Bloodborne Pathogens
11. Community Right to Know
12. Compressed Gas Safety
13. Confined Space Standard
14. Electrical Safety
15. First Aid/CPR/AED
16. Food Safety Inspection

17. Forklift Safety
18. Hazardous Waste
19. Hearing Conservation
20. Hoist/Lift/Elevator Safety
21. Integrated Pest Management
22. Laboratory Safety Standard/Chemical Hygiene Plan
23. Lead-in-Water
24. Control of Hazardous Energy Sources (Lockout/Tagout)
25. Machine Guarding
26. Mercury
27. Personal Protection Equipment (PPE)
28. Playground Safety
29. Radon
30. Respiratory Protection
31. Underground and Above Ground Storage Tanks
32. Welding/Cutting/Brazing
33. Chlorine
34. Ladder/Fall Protection
(see #22 above) ¶
35. Safety Committee
36. Employee Right to Know
37. Emergency Action Planning ¶
\
38. National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for School Generators established by the United States E.P.A.
39. Other areas determined to be appropriate by the health and safety advisory committee.

If a risk is not present in the school district, the preparation of a plan or procedure for that risk will not be necessary.
B. The administration shall establish procedures to ensure, to the extent practicable, that all employees are properly trained and instructed in job procedures, crisis response duties, and emergency response actions where exposure or possible exposure to hazards and potential hazards may occur.
C. The administration shall conduct or arrange safety inspections and drills. Any identified hazards, unsafe conditions, or unsafe practices will be documented and corrective action taken to the extent practicable to control that hazard, unsafe condition, or unsafe practice.
D. Communication from employees regarding hazards, unsafe or potentially unsafe working conditions, and unsafe or potentially unsafe practices is encouraged in either written or oral form. No employee will be retaliated against for reporting hazards or unsafe or potentially unsafe working conditions or practices.
E. The administration shall conduct periodic workplace inspections to identify potential hazards and safety concerns.
F. In the event of an accident or a near miss, the school district shall promptly cause an accident investigation to be conducted in order to determine the cause of the incident and to take action to prevent a similar incident. All accidents and near misses must be reported to an immediate supervisor as soon as possible.
V. BUDGET
The superintendent shall be responsible to provide for periodic school board review and approval of the various plan requirements of the health and safety program, including current plan requirements and related written plans and procedures and recommendations for additional plan requirements proposed to be adopted. The superintendent, or such other school official as designated by the superintendent, each year shall prepare preliminary revenue and expenditure budgets for the school district's health and safety program. The preliminary budgets shall be accompanied by such written commentary as may be necessary for them to be clearly understood by the members of the school board and the public. The school board shall review the projected revenues and expenditures for this program and make such adjustments within the expenditure budget to carry out the current program and to implement new recommendations within the revenues projected and appropriated for this purpose. No funds may be expended for the health and safety program in any school year prior to the adoption of the budget document authorizing that expenditure for that year, or prior to the adoption of an amendment to that budget document by the school board to authorize that expenditure for that year. The health and safety program shall be implemented, conducted, and administered within the fiscal restraints of the budget so adopted.
VI. ENFORCEMENT
Enforcement of this policy is necessary for the goals of the school district's health and safety program to be achieved. Within applicable budget limitations, school district employees will be

trained and receive periodic reviews of safety practices and procedures, focusing on areas that directly affect the employees' job duties. Employees shall participate in practice drills. Willful violations of safe work practices may result in disciplinary action in accordance with applicable school district policies.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. §123B.56 (Health, Safety, and Environmental Management)
Minn. Stat. §123B.57 (Capital Expenditure; Health and Safety)
Minn. Stat. § 123B.57 (Health and Safety Projects)
Minn. Stat. § 182.676 (Safety Committees)
Minn. Rules Part 5208.0010 (Accident and Injury Reduction Program;
Applicability)
Minn. Rules Part 5208.0070 (Accident and Injury Reduction Program; Alternative
Forms of Committee)
Cross References: Policy 407 (Employee Right to Know - Exposure to Hazardous Substances)
701AP (Establishment and Adoption of School District Budget)
Policy 806 (Crisis Management Policy)
RAS Equity Policy 102.1