To: Members of the School Board
From: Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Date: May 18, 2026
Re: 2025-2027 Tentative Agreement - Teachers
RECOMMENDATION:
The District Administration is recommending the approval of a two-year teacher contract with the effective dates being July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2027.
Financial Package
● The salary increase for 2025-2026 will be 2%
● The salary increase for 2026-2027 will be 2%
● Salary increase will be retroactive back to July 1, 2025.
● Insurance increases $90/month starting July 1, 2026.
Non-Economics
The articles in red are revisions to the contract. The language that is struck will be removed from the contract.
6-3
When schools are closed due to inclement weather, or other unforeseen circumstances such as mechanical failure, the district will implement an "e-learning day". Early dismissal/staggered release days allow staff to leave the building once their supervision of students has ended. In the event an official "late start" is called by the district, all teachers are expected to report for duty as soon as safe travel permits. The latest, acceptable report time shall be the normal report time plus the length of the "late start"
(e.g. normal start time is 8:00 a.m.; in a 2 hour late start, the latest, acceptable report time shall be 10:00 a.m. In case of school being closed due to extreme cold, teachers will report to work.
6-16
Any time a teacher substitute teaches beyond the normal 5 hour, 10 minute student contact time, the teacher shall receive additional pay. The pay shall be an amount equal to the portion of the absent teacher's student load assigned to the substituting teacher. In addition, if a classroom is split between two or three classrooms when a substitute is unavailable, teachers shall each receive full day substitute pay.
Payment for substituting during a teacher's prep time shall be the hourly rate, or portion thereof at the secondary level that matches the teacher's lane placement as listed in
Appendix C. A teacher shall not be required to substitute teach more than twice per month.

8-3-2-1
Involuntary Transfers-Secondary transfers shall be initiated on or before the sixteenth
(16th) student school day of each semester. Elementary transfers shall be initiated on or before the sixteenth (16th) student school day after the following natural breaks.
10-1-5-5
Starting January 1, 2025 the district will apply the provisions of the Minnesota Paid Family
Leave, established under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 268B.
10-2-2
k. Requests for exceptions to these scheduling limitations due to circumstances beyond an employee's influence or control must be submitted to Human Resources.
10-2-2-1
The maximum allocation for the 2025-2026 school year will be $20,000. If more than 20
staff members qualify for the attendance incentive the $20,000 will be divided equally among the qualifying members. Provision 10-2-2-1 will be dropped from the contract starting July 1, 2026.
Incentive for Attendance To reduce voluntary absences, a teacher who uses one (1) or fewer days of paid time off during the school year may choose an option listed in the following table with the District buying back paid time off reducing the teacher's paid time off total by the same number of days a teacher is eligible for and elects to receive payment in exchange for those days:
a. To have the District contribute the amount set forth below in the table of pay at the teacher's daily rate into the teacher's account in the State of Minnesota Deferred
Compensation Plan (457) tax sheltered annuity or 403(b) plan approved provider; or b. Receive payment set forth below in the table, to be paid no later than July 15.
c. Use of one (1) day paid time off shall be allowed for a teacher's eligibility for receiving the incentive.
d. Use of one (1) PTO day will qualify as zero (0) days used (previously interpreted as one (1)
personal leave day).
Option Zero Days Used One Day Used a. Tax shelter deposit 2 days of pay 1 day of pay

10-3-1-3
Length of Leave-Each continuous child-care leave shall not exceed two (2) full school years. The school year in which the leave begins is to be counted as one of the two years.
Teachers on child- care leave may apply for an additional year of leave under
12-4
Teachers will be paid twice per month (15th and end of month), with the option of 20 pay periods or 24 pay periods with a lump sum in June. If any pay date falls on a Saturday,
Sunday, or holiday, employees will be paid on the last business day immediately preceding. The district will publish a fiscal calendar of payroll dates.
12-4-5
School Social Workers, Speech/Language Pathologists, Occupational Therapists, Physical
Therapists, and Psychologists will each be provided with $500 each year for the purpose of developing and enhancing their social work skills and accessing training that will meet their credentialing requirements. Licensed School Social Workers,
Speech/Language Pathologists 41 and Psychologists will be guaranteed three paid professional learning days a year to attend training/conferences that support their work with the students and families they serve. Licensed Social Workers will be reimbursed for the cost of their Minnesota Board of Social Work License renewal. SLPs and Psychologists would be reimbursed their particular license fee as well.
12-5-1
Teachers accepting initial employment in District 281 shall receive credit on the salary schedule for their years of teaching experience. for up to a maximum of eight (8)
performance increments for approved outside experience. In instances where an individual teacher agrees to an initial performance increment placement below the maximum available to the teacher, such acceptance will be noted on the teacher's contract and the Federation will be notified. The district reserves the right to place new teachers on a higher level of the salary schedule than previous experience would warrant.
13-1-2
Full-time teachers not enrolled in a co-pay plan will receive a district VEBA or HSA
contribution. The minimum deductible to be considered eligible for HSA contribution is determined by the IRS each calendar year.
The School Board will participate in the long-term disability insurance program. The
Board will pay one-half of the annual premium for all full-time licensed teachers who participate in the program and are on the noncafeteria benefit plan. Teachers on the cafeteria plan are responsible to pay for 100% of the premium. The income of the participant, who is forced from work for a long period of time due to reasons of health or accident, will be insured after the 65th missed day out of 130 consecutive work days 90
calendar days out of 130 consecutive work days, or sixty-six point six percent of the

teacher's regular salary up to the policy limit, as long as the LTD claim is approved by the insurance carrier. If the teacher requests it, the School Board will pay thirty-three point three percent of the day salary to those participants who have accumulated more than 65
days of paid time off. Thirty-three point three percent of the days will be subtracted from the total number of remaining paid time off days until all paid time off has been used in full, or the teacher requests such payment be discontinued.
13-8-2
Minimum Coverage-Each full-time teacher shall purchase, at a minimum, single coverage under the group hospitalization/major medical insurance plan and shall purchase
Long-Term Disability Income insurance or a teacher may combine his/her district contribution with his/her spouse, who is currently employed in the district, to purchase combined coverage. For purposes of computing the amount to be charged to each teacher's account for the purchase of insurance coverage, the rate in effect for a particular month shall be the rate billed by the carrier for that month. Married employees both in the teacher bargaining unit jointly enrolling in 1+1 or family health coverage with a minimum deductible of $750 or more High-Deductible Health Plan will both be eligible for VEBA or HSA contributions to their individual accounts.
Co-Curricular
Add school psychologist intern supervisors to the "supervision of pre-service teachers" in
Appendix B
Team Lead and Department Chair job description
CHO MOU
MOU reporting injury