Ma RopBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved August 3, 2026

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, July 20, 2026, beginning at 6:05 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.ora/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Welcome and Land Acknowledgement

Call to Order/Roll Call
Directors present: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: Bassett. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Approval of the Agenda
MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of the agenda, Wutoh seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda items, Brynteson seconded.
Voting in favor: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 5-1 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business

A. District System of Continuous Improvement - Recommendations for the 2026-27 Strategic Priority Work
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of the recommendations, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

B. Resolution Relating to the Issuance of General Obligation School Building Bonds and Calling a Special Election
Thereon
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the alternate resolution (ballot question 3 contingent on ballot questions 1
and 2) and waived reading, Hillenbrand seconded.
Voting in favor: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 5-1 roll call vote.

New Business
A. Resolution Relating to the Election of School Board Members and Calling the School District General Election
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the resolution and waived reading, Wutoh seconded.
Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote.
B. Building Bond Referendum Campaign Communication
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent and Tracy Habisch-Ahlin, Director of Strategic Communications
Dr. Staloch and Ms. Habisch-Ahlin provided information regarding the building bond referendum communications plan.
C. Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $1,069.65
MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of the donations, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote.
D. Change to 2026-27 School Board Meeting Calendar - moving meeting from Monday, May 17, 2026 to Tuesday,
May 18, 2026 due to the Eid ul-Adha holiday, which is a district no school day.
MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of the calendar change, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

Policy (None for this evening.)

Administrative Reports
A. Superintendent's Report - Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. Highlights of the presentation included:

e Four members of the Rdale Class of 2026 were selected as Rdale Grow Your Own Scholarship Award recipients: Landon Camacho, Teriis Fitten, Jazmin Tlaseca, Madison Vroman

Summer Adventure Club at FAIR Pilgrim Lane and SEA had a Twins outing on July 9, 2026

Rdale participated in the annual Robbinsdale Whiz Bang Days Parade on July 12, 2026

Freedom School took part in National Day of Social Action on July 15, 2026

Dr. Staloch read to students during Harambee at Freedom School on July 16, 2026

Future Events
Available on our website.

Adjournment
MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 6:52 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clarit Robbinsdale Area Schools

Date: 3h/ Z02

School Board/eferk, ISD 281