Independent School District 281
Robbinsdale Area Schools
Adopted: January 12, 2015
Reviewed and Revised: April 2026
Approved: (enter date here)
712 POLICY - VIDEO SURVEILLANCE RECORDING OTHER THAN ON BUSES
I. PURPOSE
Maintaining the health, welfare, and safety of students, staff, and visitors while on school district property and the protection of school district property are important functions of the school district. The behavior of individuals who come on to school property is a significant factor in maintaining order and discipline and protecting students, staff, visitors, and school district property. The school board recognizes the value of video/electronic surveillance recording systems in monitoring activity on school property in furtherance of protecting the health, welfare, and safety of students, staff, visitors, and school district property.
II. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY
A. Placement
1. School district buildings and grounds may be equipped with video cameras.
2. Video surveillance recording may occur in any school district building or on any school district property.
3. Video surveillance recording will normally not be used in bathrooms or locker rooms, although these areas may be monitored placed under surveillance by individuals of the same sex as the occupants of the bathrooms or locker rooms.
Video surveillance in bathrooms or locker rooms will only be utilized in extreme situations, with extraordinary controls.
B. Use of Video Recordings
1. Video recordings will be viewed by school district personnel on a random basis and/or when problems have been brought to the attention of the school district.
2. A video recording of the actions of students and/or employees may be used by the school district as evidence in any disciplinary action brought against any student or employee arising out of the student's or employee's conduct in school district buildings or on school grounds.
3. A video recording will be released only in conformance with the Minnesota
Government Data Practices Act, Minnesota Statutes, chapter 13 Minn. Stat. Ch. 13, and the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, 20 United States Code, section U.S.C. § 1232g, and the rules and/or regulations promulgated thereunder.

C. Security and Maintenance
1. The school district shall establish appropriate security safeguards to ensure that video recordings are maintained and stored in conformance with the Minnesota
Government Data Practices Act, Minnesota Statutes, chapter 13 Minn. Stat. Ch. 13, and the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, 20 United States Code, section U.S.C. § 1232g, and the rules and/or regulations promulgated thereunder.
2. The school district shall ensure that video recordings are retained in accordance with the school district's records retention schedule.
Legal References: Minn. Stat. Ch. 13 (Minnesota Government Data Practices Act) Minn. Stat. §
121A.585 (Notice of Recording Device)
Minn. Stat. § 138.17 (Government Records; Administration)
Minn. Stat. § 609.746 (Interference with Privacy)
20 U.S.C. § 1232g (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act)
34 C.F.R. §§ 99.1-99.67 (Family Educational Rights and Privacy)
Cross References: 403AP (Discipline, Suspension, and Dismissal of School District Employees)
Policy 406 (Public and Private Personnel Data)
Policy 502 (Search of Student Lockers, Desks, Personal Possessions, and Student's
Person)
506AP (Student Discipline)
Policy 515 (Protection and Privacy of Pupil Records)
709AP (Student Transportation Safety Policy)
711AP (Video Recording on School Buses)
MSBA Service Manual, Chapter 2, Transportation
Cross References: MSBA/MASA Model Policy 403 (Discipline, Suspension, and Dismissal of School
District Employees)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 406 (Public and Private Personnel Data)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 502 (Search of Student Lockers, Desks, Personal
Possessions, and Student's Person)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 506 (Student Discipline)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 515 (Protection and Privacy of Pupil Records)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 709 (Student Transportation Safety Policy)
MSBA/MASA Model Policy 711 (Video Recording on School Buses)
RAS Equity Policy 102.1
Resources: U.S. Department of Education: FAQs on Photos and Videos under FERPA
(Accessed 10/12/25)