Ma goneinsp ALE Minutes of Business Meeting
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Approved July 20, 2026

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Thursday, July 9, 2026, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). This meeting was postponed from July 6, 2026 due to a power outage.

Welcome and Land Acknowledgement

Call to Order/Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett (attended remotely), Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Absent: None. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Brynteson moved to approve the agenda, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote.

District System of Continuous Improvement
A. 2025-26 District Strategic Priorities: Initial Data Review - Becky Brodeur, Senior Director of Teaching and
Learning and Dr. Erica Ahigren, Assistant Director of Learning Analytics and Impact
Ms. Brodeur and Dr. Ahigren reviewed the data regarding priority work of focus from the 2025-26 school year.
B. Recommendations for the 2025-27 Strategic Priority Work - Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Dr. Staloch provided the recommended focus for the Strategic Priority Work in the 2026-27 school year.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Brynteson seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business

A. Superintendent Evaluation Summary Statement
Chair Evans-Becker read the following statement into the record:
"The Board thanks Superintendent Staloch for her hard work and dedication to our district andc our students.
The majority of the Board scored the superintendent as highly effective, and looks forward to working with her in the next year in improving student outcomes and community engagement. This is not a bonus, or an award - it is contractual."

B. Superintendent Contractual Pay Incentive
MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved approval of the resolution and read it into the record, Hillenbrand seconded.
Voting in favor: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Bassett, Long
Motion prevailed with a 5-2 roll call vote.

C. Review of Draft Ballot Language - Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Ms. Hoheisel reviewed the draft ballot language based on the School Board's June 15, 2026 decision to approve the submission of a Review and Comment request reflecting the three questions under consideration.
The language was provided to support the Board's review and discussion, with final ballot language coming forward for approval at the July 20, 2026 Business Meeting.

New Business

A. Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $29,354.84
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the resolution, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote.

Policy (None for this evening.)

Administrative Reports (None for this evening.)

Board Committee Reports and Board Reports

This portion of the agenda provides an opportunity for each Board member to do a brief update regarding work pertaining to their Board duties. At this evening's Listening Time, two individuals spoke regarding the following topics:
e Question 3 of the proposed referendum

e EAcontract & item 6.B. on agenda (Superintendent Contractual Pay Incentive)

Future Events

Period for Filing Affidavits of Candidacy for Four School Board Director Positions

Filings begin Tuesday, July 14 through 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, July 28, 2026 and will be held on the 3rd floor at the
ESC between 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Potential candidates must:

e Provide identification and proof of residence

e Paya $2.00 filing fee

Adjournment
MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, and Brynteson seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a unanimous roll call vote. Meeting adjourned at 9:27 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assigtant to the erintendent and School Board

Signed Date:

lerk, ISD 281