ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Business Meeting

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved October 6, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, September 23, 2025, beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https: .rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the agenda, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Wutoh seconded.

Voting for: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Holmes, Long

Motion prevailed with a 5-2 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business
A. Superintendent Goals for 2025-26
MOTION: Evans-Becker moved approval of Superintendent Staloch's goals for 2025-26, Bowman seconded.
Voting for: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Holmes, Long
Motion prevailed with a 5-2 roll call vote.
B. Dates for Additional School Board Special Study Sessions
MOTION: Holmes moved to extend invitations to the Financial Advisory Council (FAC) members to attend the
Special Study Sessions, Long seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the dates for additional School Board Study Special Study Sessions,
Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

New Business

A. Preliminary Levy Certification for Taxes Payable in 2026 - Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
MOTION: Bowman moved certification of the Preliminary Levy for taxes payable in 2026 as a "Maximum" levy amount, Bassett seconded.
Voting for: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

B. Resolution for Acceptance of Donations in the amount of $30,099.39
MOTION: Bassett moved approval of the Resolution for Acceptance of Donations, Hillenbrand seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

C. Resolution to Rescind the Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee
MOTION: Evans-Becker moved approval of the Resolution to Rescind the Ad Hoc Safety and Security
Committee, Wutoh seconded.
Voting for: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Bassett, Holmes, Long
Motion prevailed with a 4-3 roll call vote.

D. Resolution to Rescind the Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee
MOTION: Evans-Becker moved approval of the Resolution to Rescind the Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital
Infrastructure Committee, Wutoh seconded.
Voting for: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Wutoh

Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

Policy

Second Read (Action) - Policies

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the changes to bring the following policies into alignment with the Minnesota

School Boards Association (MSBA) and legislative compliance, Hillenbrand seconded:
e 410 Policy - Family and Medical Leave

413 Policy - Discrimination, Harassment, and Violence

415 Policy - Mandated Reporting of Maltreatment of Vulnerable Adults

506 Policy - Student Discipline

514 Policy - Bullying Prohibition

524 Policy - Internet, Technology, and Cell Phone Acceptable Use and Safety e 722 Policy - Public Data and Data Subjects

Voting for: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Holmes, Long

Motion prevailed with a 5-2 voice vote.

Administrative Reports (None)
Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Bassett moved to adjourn the meeting, and Bowman seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 6:52 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assisja ooh itendent and School Board

UNM li-~ Date: o[u|zoz5-

ReNae J. Boyshan, School Board Clerk, ISD 281