Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Approved June 20, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, June 6, 2023, beginning at 6:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon Brooks, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, and Caroline Long; and David Engstrom, Superintendent.
Director(s) absent: Director John Vento. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Holmes made a motion to add an open discussion regarding the Highview incident from last week to the business meeting agenda, and Director
Long seconded the motion. Director Bassett amended Director Holmes' motion to take the discussion to a closed session pursuant to Minnesota (MN) Statutes 13D.05, subdivisions 2 (a)(3) and subdivision 3(d) to receive security briefings, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Chair Evans-Becker recommended the Board recess to this closed session - adding it as item 6.B. after the Announcements, and prior to Adjournment of the Business Meeting.
Director Brooks moved to accept the agenda with Director Bassett's amended motion, and Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Sharing the Success - Armstrong High School (AHS) Supermileage Team

Students from the AHS Supermileage Team and their Advisor Luke Becker presented regarding the competitions they took part in - placing first in the Americas event, earning them an invitation to participate in the Shell Eco Marathon
World Drivers Championship in October of 2023 in Bangalore, India. They will take the vehicles they engineered and manufactured to compete in fuel efficiency competition, time trials and races.

Special Recognition - Carrie Johnson, Recipient of an Educators of America Award
Carrie's bus drivers and staff nominated her for this honor because of her:

e great efficiency and effectiveness in all that she does to help families, students, and staff;

e Creating an energized team atmosphere;

e Never complaining about problems, but instead, consistently having a "can do" willingness to help solve

problems whenever they arise;

e And being a positive influence on her team, as she is always there for her staff with an ear and a smile.
Carrie has helped Robbinsdale through a difficult era, when many local districts were faced with staffing shortages and supply chain issues around transportation. Families, workers, drivers, and students can all feel the positive upswing of how transportation is viewed and experienced, with issues being resolved quickly and with positive outcomes for all.

Operations

A. Action: Approval of 2023-2024 Resolution for Membership in the Minnesota State High School League
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Approval of Addition of a Closed Session on June 26, 2023 pursuant to MN Statute 13D.05, Subdivision
3(a) for Superintendent Evaluation
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and
Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Non-Action: FY24 Preliminary Budget Assumptions
Ukee Dozier, Executive Director of Finance, presented an overview of the fiscal year 2024 preliminary budget assumptions, and responded to questions.

D. Non-action: Review of Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) 10-Year Plan
Alissa Pier, Interim Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation, shared an overview presentation and budgeted costs of the 10-year LTFM plan, and responded to questions.

E. Non-Action: Human Resources Staffing Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources provided a staffing update, and was available for questions and discussion.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes,and Long.
And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Closed Session
At 9:15 p.m.the School Board recessed to enter a closed session pursuant to Minnesota (MN) Statutes 13D.05,

subdivisions 2 (a)(3) and subdivision 3(d) to receive security briefings.

Adjournment

At 10:55 p.m. the School Board returned from the closed session. MOTION: Director Bowman moved to adjourn the
Business meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same:
none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: ¥¢ bolus i 20,202

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281