Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved September 16, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Wednesday, September 4, 2024, beginning at 6:10 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the

meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:10 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent.
Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Vento moved to accept the agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.

Director Brooks moved to amend the agenda to include discussion to rescind the motion to censure her, Director
Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett and Brooks. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento.
Said motion failed.

Director Brooks moved to amend the agenda to censure Director Vento. No one seconded the motion.

Director Bassett moved to set a date certain to complete the discussion around the investigation report, Director
Brooks seconded the motion. Director Holmes suggested a friendly amendment to add this discussion to tonight's
Work Session agenda under "Other" if the Board agrees, to set a date certain to complete the discussion around the investigation report. Directors Bassett and Brooks were amenable to this suggestion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento.
And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Upon vote being taken thereon for the original Business Meeting agenda, the following voted in favor thereof:
Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Superintendent Update

Superintendent Staloch provided a presentation detailing preparations leading up to the start of the year as we continue align our work to the strategic plan in an effort to (Re)Discover Rdale, as well as a summary of the first couple of days. Preparations timeline included:

August 12, 2024 - System Leaders Advance meeting of district administrators

August 14, 2024 - Safety Training

August 20, 2024 - Educational Services Center staff meeting

August 20, 2024 - Capital Projects Levy Renewal Site Team kick-off meeting

August 23, 2024 - New Teachers' Welcome meeting

August 24, 2024 - Staff kick-off preparations

Armstrong and Cooper Marching Bands at the Minnesota State Fair!

August 26, 2024 - All district staff kick-off event

August 26-30, 2024 - Workshop week, staff meetings, district professional development, and back to school open houses

And finally the first week of school! Superintendent Staloch is excited to make it a great year... it's time to
(Re)Discover Rdale!

Operations
A. Action: Changes to the 2024-2025 School Board Meeting Calendar
Proposed changes:
e November 4, 2024 - Move the Comprehensive Achievement and Civic Readiness (formerly World's Best
Work Force) Annual Report public hearing into the Business Meeting as the first discussion item (including public forum), instead of separately prior to the Business Meeting.

e December 2, 2024 - Move the Truth in Taxation Public Hearing from 5:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. due to Minnesota
Statute 2023, section 275.065, subdivision 3(c). With this change, the Business Meeting would start at 6:30
p.m., after the conclusion of the Truth in Taxation Public Hearing.

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the School Board Meeting Calendar changes, and Director

Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors

Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same:

none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Non-Action: Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the Reading to Ensure Academic Development (READ)
Act - Marti Voight, Assistant Superintendent and Bridget Hall, Interim Assistant Superintendent/Director of
Elementary Curriculum and Federal Programs
Ms. Voight and Ms. Hall were available to answer any questions regarding the MOU for the READ Act between
Independent School District 281 and the Robbinsdale Federation of Teachers (RFT), Local 872. It is recommended that the MOU for the READ Act be moved to action for approval at the September 16, 2024
Business Meeting.

C. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee
The Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee had no update this evening, and are working to schedule their next meeting (likely to occur in late September). At the last meeting, the committee did a level set with Superintendent
Staloch.

D. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee Meeting
The Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee has scheduled their next meeting for Monday,
September 25, 2024 at 5:00 p.m. in the Boardroom. Interested community members may attend.

E. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Update
At the August 19, 2024 Business Meeting, the School Board was provided with a copy of the MSBA Governance
Handbook template. It was requested that Directors review and provide input on this document by Friday,
September 6, 2024, so Chair Bowman and Clerk Evans-Becker can prepare a draft for our district. They are currently reviewing the document to identify where current documents fit into this template.

F. Administrative Updates - Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
A Guide to Student Support and Behavior
John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services, reviewed A Guide to Student Support and Behavior
(formerly called Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook). The name was changed due to feedback from staff and students, and is now aligned to the strategic plan. Mr. Groenke credited Shirrie Jackson, who led a several month long process gathering feedback from staff, students and community members - followed by meeting with a team to sift through it all to create this new guide. The goal was to clarify the purpose, layout prevention and support, and review the levels and adjust as needed. Resource links have been updated, as well.
A few copies will be printed for the administrative offices at the buildings, and it will be available on the district website. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee members asked to review it prior to putting it out, with Board review to follow that. Superintendent Staloch said the document will be used now. Mr. Groenke added that it is a living document that we can update if need be, but schools need the copies now as we start the year.
Preliminary Levy Certification Timeline
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer, provided a general timeline for the annual preliminary levy certification, noting that September 30, 2024 is the deadline for district to submit data changes to the Minnesota Department of
Education (MDE) - as well as the deadline for School Boards to certify proposed levies to county auditors. She also noted the following important dates coming up:

December 2, 2024 - Annual Truth in Taxation public hearing to discuss Pay 2025 final levy

December 16, 2024 - School Board Business Meeting - Pay 2025 final levy to be adopted by School Board

December 28, 2024 - Deadline to submit final levy to Hennepin County

January 9, 2025 - Deadline to submit copy of final levy to MDE

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items are considered routine in nature and are enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Board member so requests, in which the item will be removed as a Consent
Agenda item, and addressed. Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
7:36 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Lief pant Lidho Date: 9 ep fl202L

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281