LAP ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting

Area Schools
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved December 15, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, December 1, 2025, beginning at 7:24 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."

Welcome/Call to Order and Roll Call
Directors present: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent.
Absent: Bassett. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of the agenda, Wutoh seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

Rdale Proud: Plymouth Middle School (PMS) - Igniting Student Leadership

Marina Day and Lisa Raymond spoke on behalf of Tamiko Thomas, principal of PMS. They and student leaders shared work done around student Leadership. Nina Jonson, Theater Program Director, introduced students who performed musical selections from PMS' upcoming production of Beauty and the Beast Jr.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Bassett moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Hillenbrand seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business

A. Continued Statutory Operating Debt (SOD) Planning
Dr. Staloch, Dr. Bob McDowell - Assistant Superintendent, and Kristen Hoheisel - Chief Financial Officer reviewed continued SOD planning information, followed by questions and discussion with the Board.

New Business

A. Levy Certification for Taxes Payable in 2026
MOTION: Bowman moved approval to certify the 2025 levy for taxes payable in 2026 in the amount of
$76,522,867.05, Wutoh seconded
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Abstaining: Long citing a lack of understanding
Motion prevailed with a 5-0 roll call vote.

B. Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $29,474.13
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Resolution Accepting Donations, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 roll call vote.

C. District Balanced Scorecard
Erica Ahlgren, Assistant Director of Analytics, reviewed information regarding the district balanced scorecard.
The Board followed with questions.

D. Property and Liability Insurance Broker
Ms. Hoheisel reviewed the proposal provided by our insurants agenda, Mohammad Elsawaf and Nick Thibault of
USI Insurance Services, LLC. The intent is to move this to action at the December 15, 2025 Business Meeting for approval in the Consent Agenda.

E. Resolution for 2026 Election Combined Polling Locations
Molly Olson, Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board/District Elections Clerk, reviewed the proposed resolution defining the 2026 combined polling locations per MN Statute 204B.16 and 205A.11. The intent is to move this to action at the December 15, 2025 Business Meeting for approval.

Policy

Director Wutoh noted the last meeting was November 19, 2025. The following policies were reviewed, and had first reads after the Committee Report:

First Read Policies:

e 401 Policy - Equal Employment Opportunity

403 Policy - Discipline, Suspension and Dismissal of School District Employees

404 Policy - Employment Background Checks

406 Policy - Public and Private Personnel Data

e 408 Policy - Subpoena of a School District Employee

The intent is for these policies to come forward for second read/action at the Business Meeting on December 15,
2025.

Administrative Reports

A. Superintendent's Report - Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. Highlights of the presentation included:
e Three district seniors qualified for the 2026 National Speech and Debate Tournament in Richmond, VA in

June of 2026

e District Round Dance held on November 21, 2025 at Robbinsdale Middle School (RMS)
e Kindergarten Information Fair held on November 22, 2025 at FAIR Crystal e Cooper student visits to Early Learning classes

B. 2025 Annual Staff Charitable Giving Campaign Report
Anthony Williams provided a report regarding the results of the campaign, which raised $7,198.00 for The Seven
Dreams Educaiton Foundation, and $5,303.00 for The Greater Twin Cities United Way

C. 2026 Legislative Action Coalition (LAC) Platform Report
Mr. Williams presented the proposed 2026 Legislative Platform, which is planned to be on the Consent Agenda for the December 15, 2025 Business Meeting.

D. 2026-27 District Calendar
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources, provided an update on the development of the proposed calendar for the 2026-27 academic year, which will be brought forward at the December 15, 2025 Business
Meeting on the Consent Agenda.

Board Committee Reports and Board Reports
Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Bowman facilitated the Listening Time held at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Nine individuals submitted requests and spoke in regard to the following topics:

e Sonnesyn Elementary's building usage by the community

Future of RSI and Sonnesyn

Fiscal equity, process failure and loss of community, and magnet transportation

Future of the Auditorium at RMS

Proposal related to Lakeviw Elementary

Proposed changes to magnet school transportation

Advocating for center-based programs/students for the 2026-27 school year

Neill Elementary regarding school closing and other thoughts

Magnet transportation

eee eee? @

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 9:42 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Date: /2~/s- 2025

, School Board Clerk, ISD 281