Summary Minutes of Special Study Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed January 20, 2026
Monday, January 12, 2026 beginning at 6:00 p.m.

1. Welcome/Land Acknowledgement
Chair Evans-Becker welcomed everyone, and read the district land acknowledgement.

2. Introductions
Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, DJ Brynteson, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva
Hillenbrand, Caroline Long, Dr. Kenneth Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s)
absent: none.

Senior Leadership Team Members present:

e Dr. Bob McDowell, Assistant Superintendent

e Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

e Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources

e Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics, and Activities

MOTION: Long moved to add discussion about moving to eLearning under Operational Performance
Oversight and Organizational Direction - before 2026-27 District Calendar, Wutoh seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

3. Purpose and Agenda
Superintendent Staloch reviewed the Board's 2025-26 Agenda and Working Document noting tonight's discussion is for work highlighted Under Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational
Direction, specifically:
e Review School Boundary Modifications

Review Revised 2025-26 Budget

Review Draft of Statutory Operating Debt (SOD) Plan

Review 2026-27 Transition Plan

Review 2026-27 School District Calendar

Discuss Superintendent Mid-Year Evaluation Process

4. District Governance and Policy

e School Board 2026 Committee Assignments Discussion
The Board verified who would participate in which committees for 2026

e Roll Call Procedure Discussion
The Board discussed preferences for doing roll call vote, noting that Roberts Rules does state alphabetical, with the chair voting last. It was determined that the roll calls will be done by rotating the names to vary the order.

e Action - Amendment to Appoint Legal Counsel
MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved approval to the amendment to appoint legal counsel to include authorizing the Director of Student Services to contact district attorneys, Brynteson seconded.
Voting for: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Motion prevails with a 6-1 roll call vote.

5. Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction

School Board Boundary Modifications

Ms. Hoheisel and Dr. McDowell reviewed the proposed boundary changes relevant to the school closures and programming changes that will occur for the start of SY27 with the Board, with the intent of bringing them to action during the Business Meeting on January 20, 2026.

Revised 2025-26 Budget

Ms. Hoheisel reviewed the revised 2025-26 budget with the Board, which will be brought to action during the Business Meeting on January 20, 2026.

Review Draft of SOD Plan

Ms. Hoheisel reviewed the memo accompanying the draft of the SOD plan, followed by discussion.
Dr. McDowell reviewed the building closure and consolidation assumptions, with further discussion.

The Board recessed briefly at 8:26 p.m., then reconvened at 8:35 p.m.

2026-27 Transition Programming (tabled reviewing the draft of the SOD plan until after these presentations)

Cooper High School (CHS) Course Offerings Transition

Becky Brodeur, Senior Director of Teaching and Learning

Matt Pletcher, Assistant Director of Teaching and Learning

Shaunece Smith, CHS Principal

Alyssa Sieber, CHS Instructional Coach

Andrea Obranovich, CHS International Baccalaureate (IB) and Advanced Placement (AP)
Coordinator

The group reviewed how IB programming will be offered to seniors wishing to complete the diploma program next year, how they will phase out the remaining IB courses, and which AP courses will be available.

Middle School Course Offerings and 6 Period Day Transition

Ms. Brodeur and Mr. Pletcher were joined by Jay Hancock - Sandburg Middle School (SMS)
Principal and Sarah Doohen - Plymouth Middle School (PMS) Counselor for this presentation outlining the benefits of changing from a 7 to a 6 period day. The changes will allow both PMS and
SMS to have consistent schedules and instructional time and course offering alignment.

Resume Review Draft of SOD Plan

Ms. Hoheisel reviewed the draft of the SOD plan documents and requested general information to include in the narrative from the Board. The final SOD plan will move to action at the Business
Meeting on January 20, 2026.

Opportunity for eLearning for families fearing ICE

Dr. Staloch and Dr. McDowell are working on a plan for families needing options for their students.
They are working through it with Senior Leadership and district principals, and will get communications out before the end of the week.

2026-27 District Calendar

Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources, reviewed the calendar with the Board, and answered their questions prior to a vote.

MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved approval of the proposed 2026-27 district calendar as presented, Hillenbrand seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 voice vote.

6. Board Governance (None this evening.)

7. Superintendent Relations
Superintendent Mid-Year Evaluation Process Discussion
Chair Evans-Becker and Dr. Staloch led this discussion to clarify the process for Dr. Staloch's Mid-Year
Update during the Study Session on January 20, 2026

8. Community Engagement (None this evening.)

9. Information Items
Board Seating at the Dais
With Director Bryteson starting, Chair Evans-Becker told the Board some changes will be made to the seating arrangement at the dais.
Legislative Breakfast
The annual Legislative Breakfast will occur Tuesday, January 13, 2026 in the Boardroom at ESC at
7:30 a.m.
MSBA Leadership Conference
Some directors and Dr. Staloch will attend the Awards Banquet Wednesday, January 14, 2026 in the evening, and most will attend the conference Thursday, January 15-Friday, January 16.
Association of Metropolitan School District (AMSD) Legislative Preview
Dr. Staloch noted this event, which will be held on February 6 in a blended format - followed by a presentation on Dignity Index.

10. Closed Session
Pursuant to MN Statute 13D.05, Subd. 2(a)(3) and Subd. 3(d) to receive security briefings, and discuss all facilities' security systems and emergency response procedures.
MOTION: Bassett moved to recess for the closed session, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

The Board recessed to this session at 10:32 p.m., then reconvened at 10:52 p.m.

11. Future Agenda Topics
The following topics were requested for a future Study Session, and added to the Parking Lot:
e Request for discussion regarding National School Boards Association (NSBA) and Consortium of
State School Boards Association (COSSBA)
e Request for presentation of the plan for moving to an Arts & Innovation District e Request for discussion regarding career tech, curriculum, pathway

12. Meeting concluded at 10:53 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board