ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed March 4, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, February 20, 2024 at
9:15 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:

https://www,rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

City of Plymouth - 36th Avenue Street Rehabilitation Project

Marti Voight - Interim Superintendent

Alissa Pier - Interim Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation

Virginia Verbruggee - Assistant Director of Finance

Interim Superintendent Voight and Ms. Pier reviewed the three options provided for the Board to select in regard to the
36th Avenue Street Rehabilitation Project, which will affect Plymouth Middle School (PMS) and Armstrong High School
(AHS). A vote will need to be taken at the March 4, 2024 meeting in regard to the Board's decision.

Resolution for Non-Resident Student Enrollment Capacity Limits

Marti Voight - Interim Superintendent

Virginia Verbruggee - Assistant Director of Finance

Interim Superintendent Voight and Ms. Verbrugge reviewed the class size ranges, which are recommended to remain the same for SY25. Additionally, they took questions regarding the same - as well as the information provided in regard to in district vs. out of district students.

Policy and Administrative Procedure Reviews
Governance Policy Committee Members
The Board reviewed the following policies and administrative procedures brought forth by the Governance Policy
Committee Members:

e 506 - Student Discipline

e 606 - Selection of Curricula and Instructional Materials

e 606.1 - Library Materials
The policies will be moved to action for a vote for approval at the Business Meeting on Monday, March 4, 2024, however the Board does not vote on administrative procedures.

Board Topics e Capital Levy Projects and Operating Referendum Renewal Discussion

After hearing the presentations at the Business Meeting this evening, this was additional time for the Board to discuss what they heard. Interim Superintendent Voight recommended the Board approve a resolution for the operating referendum renewal (district Board can renew one time), not on the election ballot. She also recommended the Capital Tech Levy Projects go on the ballot for renewal vote with no increase in amount, but expanding the scope of it to include the safety component. The Board has further questions. It was recommended that the Board submit a list of questions for district administration to provide responses for, to help determine how to move forward.

Other e Rationale for Hire of Executive Director of Finance
Interim Superintendent Voight and Ms. Verbrugge requested to post the Executive Director of Finance position immediately, and discontinue the contracts with Student Management Systems. The Senior Accountant just resigned, which was a director-level position. They recommended to post for a Program Assistant in replacement to be aligned to the Assistant Director of Finance like the other existing Finance positions. This would allow for streamlined efficiencies between positions, and a savings in the staffing costs.

1

Work Session adjourned at 11:16 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board