Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Approved October 2, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, September 18, 2023, beginning at 7:00 p.m. at New Hope City Hall in the council chambers. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bassett called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Assistant
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bassett asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Bowman moved to add
Superintendent Separation Agreement to the agenda, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved to approve the Superintendent Separation Agreement, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved to approve the balance of the Business Meeting agenda, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Sharing the Success: 2023 Summer Programming Update and Highlights

Tracy Moll, Special Education Supervisor - Middle Schools

Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities

Tony Patterson, Assistant Director of Achievement and Integration

A presentation was made recapping all of the programs provided districtwide in summer of 2023, serving a total of
4,959 students.

Assistant Superintendent's Report

Special Education Staffing Concerns

Marti Voight, Assistant Superintendent

Ms. Voight spoke in regard to the challenges of filling special education positions. Working to change things around as needed, contracting with agencies, attending job fairs and open houses, connecting with college education departments, working with unions and contemplating retention and hiring bonuses.

Transportation Update

Alissa Pier, Interim Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation

Busing is fully-staffed with 90 Durham and 10 district drivers. 34 more drivers are in different parts of the hiring process - to be substitute drivers and/or take over if turnover of regular route drivers occurs. 95% of VPK preschool students are now in yellow buses instead of vans. We are working through requests for bus stop changes, and adjusting routes for improved efficiencies. Construction on Rockford Road and 36th Avenue continues to be a

struggle.

Operations
A. Action: Approval of School Resource Officer Contract for Golden Valley
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,

Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director
Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Resolution Accepting August 2023 Donations
MOTION: Director Vento moved to accept the $14,422.31 in donations to the district, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Non-Action: Preliminary Tax Levy Certification for Taxes Payable in 2024
Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance and Michael Hart, PMA Securities, LLC
Ms. Verbrugge and Mr. Hart presented the proposed levy taxes payable in 2024, and took questions from the
Board Directors. The levy certification will come to the Board for action on Monday, October 2, 2023 at the
Business Meeting.

D. Non-Action: Human Resources Staffing Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Ms. O'Hern provided the "Human Resources Staffing Update," and was available for questions and discussion.

E. Non-Action: Policy Update
Governance Policy Committee Members
There was nothing new to report at this meeting, as the Policy Committee Meeting scheduled for tonight was canceled in favor of the Closed Session for Attorney Client Privilege.

F. Non-Action: Sandy Hook Promise (SHP) Update
Bo Powell, Director of Security
Mr. Powell provided an update on the progress of implementation of the SHP program districtwide. All schools have training of staff and students complete after tomorrow, and posters are up in all buildings. Student leaders are being identified and will be trained at the October 17 Leadership Conference.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports
Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Bowman facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. at New
Hope City Hall in the council chambers. Ten community members spoke in regards to:
e School safety and academics
Kneeling for the National Anthem
Contracts for employees
Teaching basic skills
Communication in Somali language - errors in translations
Need for more staff that are Somali speakers
Disbursements
Communication with the community
Community and student engagement, in regard to committees
Plans for the return of COVID
Non-compliance with MN Statute 120A.03 - MN Education Mission Statement
Request for no mask mandate for district school children in light of rise in COVID cases

e@eeeoeoeoee0eee7eee

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Flr ore Date: Ockoler as 2024

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281