Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved March 6, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, February 21, 2023, beginning at 7:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon Brooks Green, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Holmes made a motion to add a discussion to the agenda in regard to scheduling a safety, security and budget special meeting, Director
Bowman seconded the motion. Chair Evans-Becker proposed putting the discussion as item 7.A. under Board
Reports. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks
Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the amended Business Meeting agenda. MOTION: Director
Bowman moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Arts Showcase

Superintendent Engstrom let everyone know about Cooper High School Theater Department's production of
"Newsies," which starts on February 23, 2023 with other performances that weekend and the following weekend beginning March 1. A video clip from Gretchen Wurzer, Director was shown.

Superintendent Engstrom let everyone know that Armstrong High School Theater Department's production of
"Cinderella" starts on February 24 with other performances that weekend and the following weekend beginning
March 1, 2023.

Superintendent's Report

e Due to the winter storm our schools will move to asynchronous e-Learning days for Wednesday, February
22-Friday, February 24, 2023. A district communication was sent to families today providing this information, followed by information from the buildings and teachers.

e February 8, 2023 a Black History Month celebration was held at FAIR School Crystal - a wonderful event, well-attended.

e February is Minnesota School Board Recognition Month - we appreciate all our School Board does in service to our students, staff and communities.

Operations

A. Action: Propose approving addition of Work Session immediately following tonights Business Meeting -
presented by Chair Evans-Becker
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Long seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Brooks Green. Said motion was declared duly passed.
B. Action: Propose changing June 5 Business Meeting and Work Session to June 6 - presented by David Engstrom,
Superintendent
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Action: Propose approving Resolution for Non-Resident Student Enrollment Capacity Limits for 2023-2024 -
presented by Ukee Dozier - Executive Director of Finance
MOTION: Director Vento waived reading the resolution and moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman and Holmes. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Action: Propose approving Resolution for Accepting Donations - presented by Ukee Dozier - Executive Director of
Finance
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters. MOTION: Director Holmes moved removal of Personnel Matters (personnel reports) and Financial Matters (Disbursements) for separate discussion. As a result, each Consent Agenda item was discussed, then handled individually as follows:

A. Administrative

a. Draft Minutes - MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Personnel Matters

a. Licensed Staff Personnel Report - MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Brooks
Green, Evans-Becker, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman and
Holmes. Said motion was declared duly passed.

b. Non-Licensed Staff Personnel Report - MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Long seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Brooks Green, Evans-Becker and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman,
Holmes and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Financial Matters

a. Bid Award for District Data Switches and Maintenance - MOTION: Director Vento moved bid award be removed from the agenda due to errors in the bid numbers - proposing it be corrected and resubmitted under
Consent Agenda on March 6, 2023, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

b. Disbursements - MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Long seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Brooks Green, Evans
Becker, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman and Holmes. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Chair Evans-Becker facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Twelve community members spoke in regards to: termination of a district employee, concerns about safety of environment at Plymouth Middle School, disbursement of Durham Transportation settlement funds, arts representation and equity, strategic plan status and academic concerns, district International
Baccalaureate (IB) program, communications regarding fine arts, T-Mobile bills, and transportation of students from outside of district boundaries vs. within boundaries.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: LY rut ~ nate arch (o { 2023

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281