ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved December 2, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, November 18, 2024, beginning at 7:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: httos://www,rdale, ora/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent.
There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
Chair Bowman asked for a motion to approve the Business Meeting agenda.

MOTION: Director Vento moved to accept the Business Meeting agenda, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Rdale Proud - Showcase: School of Engineering and Arts (SEA) - Annual Pumpkin Drop STEAM Project for

Engineering and Design

Heather Hanson, Principal of SEA

Martha Hovde, Teacher

Carol Callen, Teacher and District Alum

Nicole Ewert, Adventure Club Assistant Supervisor and District Alum

Students: Sephie Ader, Krish Densmore, Eli Hoaby, Rayna Imbu, Kal Minnich, and Aleena Witherspoon

A presentation was provided regarding the annual pumpkin drop STEAM Project for engineering and design that

occurred on November 1, 2024. This event aligns to the Strategic Plan in the following:

e Theme A - Academic Achievement with application of scientific and engineering concepts, critical thinking, and problem solving skills

e Theme B - Student Engagement and Wellness by fostering creativity and curiosity, experimental, hands-on and inquiry-based learning

e Theme C - Collaboration and Partnership through student collaboration, parent volunteers, district staff and department involvement in this community event

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique

potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates

career, articulated trades and college ready. She provided an update on activities, which included:

e Expressing gratitude and appreciation to the community for passing the Capital Projects Levy Renewal in the election with 74.47% of the vote

e November 4-5 professional development days investing in our staff in training sessions including school improvement plan (SIP) work, LETRS training, EduClimber training, relicensure sessions, and more

e November 11 - started the day at Meadow Lake greeting students as they arrived, then was in awe of the talent of our students at the Annual Fall Music Festival at Orchestra Hall

e November 14 - attended the Association of Metropolitan School Districts (AMSD) Fall conference with Board and
Cabinet members, then attended Northport Family Engagement Culture Night, an inclusive event for all

Upcoming events include:

e Fall Strings Festival - November 21 at 7:00 p.m. at Armstrong

e All District Band/Orchestra Concert - November 25 at 7:00 p.m. at Robbinsdale Middle School (RMS)

e "A Midsummer Night's Dream Disaster - The Show Must Go On!" - an original production by Cooper Theatre
(Gretchen Wurzer-Palm, Director and students) with show times on December 4 at 4:30 p.m., December 5-7 at
7:00 p.m.

State of the Budget Report

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Ms. Hoheisel updated the Board and community regarding the status of the district budget, followed by questions from the Board. A State of the Budget Town Hall Meeting will be held on Wednesday, November 20, 2024 at 6:30 p.m.
in the Cooper auditorium, allowing the community to ask questions and provide feedback.

Operations

A. Action: Resolution Awarding Sale of General Obligation Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Bonds, Series 2024A
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval and waived reading, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof; Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: 36th Avenue Project in Plymouth - Grants of Permanent and Temporary Easements
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval and waived reading, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Holmes. Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Action: Resolution for 2025 Election Polling Locations
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval and waived reading, and Director Brooks seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Resolution for Acceptance of October 2024 Donations
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of donations in total of $34,765.02, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

E. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
The committee reviewed a summary of the discussion from their meeting on November 6, 2024, and is looking to set a date for their next meeting.

E. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee Report
The committee discussed the Request for Proposal (RFP) bid process, with recommendations for transportation coming in December - a summary of the information and contract for Board approval.

F, Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Report
Chair Bowman noted that the final draft of the Governance Policy and Procedure Manual would be discussed in the Work Session this evening.

G. Policy Committee Report
The committee noted that the first set of policies drafted by Anne Becker from Becker Law will have the first reading at the Work Session tonight.

H. Administrative Updates e Human Resources: Grow Your Own Program - Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources

Ms. O'Hern provided an update on the Grow Your Own program in the district. This is year one and seven candidates were accepted into the program. Here are some details regarding the candidates:

Five of the seven are staff of color

One is working on Social Studies certification

One is working on Early Learning

Five are working on Special Education

Four are teaching on a variance

One is an Education Assistant

In the Grow Your Own Program tuition is covered, along with: travel expenses, daycare and curriculum

materials. The district provides help on applications. Fall of 2025 will begin year two, and there will be five

more spots available for district applicants.

VYVYVYVY

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared

duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Vento facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Five individuals submitted requests and spoke in regard to:

e Proposed construction in and around the Plymouth Middle School (PMS) property

The Financial Advisory Council (FAC) application process

Graduation requirements, levy breakdown, State of the Budget presentation

Board behavior moving forward

Minneapolis NAACP president came to address an issue of concern

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.

Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
9:27 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

A TZ Liz heey / Date: ial} 02H

cker, School Board Clerk, ISD 281

Signed:

r. Greta Evans-Be