Summary Minutes of Study Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed: October 6, 2025

A Study Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, September 23, 2025 at
7:04 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Welcome and Introductions
The School Board, Superintendent, and Cabinet introduced themselves.

Purpose and Agenda
District Governance and Policy (None)

Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction

e Reimagine Rdale Vision 2030 Recommendations to the Board
Members of the Vision 2030Team presenting: Willie Howard (Parent of graduates, Staff member, Community member
(resident)), BriAnn Foss (Parent of current students, Parent of graduates, Community member (resident), Alumna), and Kyllander Nelson Chupurdia (Student at Cooper High School)
A presentation was made to the Board outlining the issues the district is facing, the process of choosing the Vision
2030 Team, their eight months of research and work, and the Vision 2030 Team's recommendations for the future of our district.

e Statutory Operating Debt Plan and Reimagine
Dr. Teri Staloch - Superintendent, Dr. Bob McDowell - Assistant Superintendent, and Kristen Hoheisel - Chief
Financial Officer followed the Vision 2030 Team members, thanking the entire team for their hard work. A summary of their recommendations was provided, followed by an explanation of the SOD Plan, a short-term draft timeline and an extended draft timeline in phases of both. At the end, the district administration recommended that the Board take action to direct Rdale district administration to begin acting on the draft timelines for both SOD planning and
Reimagine Rdale 2030.
MOTION: Evans-Becker moved to direct administration to begin acting on the draft timelines outlined for both SOD
planning and Reimagine 2030, Bowman seconded.
Voting for: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

Board Governance (None)
Superintendent Relations (None)
Community Engagement (None)
Information Items (None)

Future Agenda Topics (None)

Study Session concluded at 8:58 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board