ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Reviewed January 8, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, December 18, 2023 in the
Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
httos:/Awww,rdale,org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

District 281 Youth Council

Student Introduction by: Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities and
Nicole Plagge, Youth Development and Enrichment Coordinator

Three students from Cooper and one from Armstrong were introduced, and they spoke about the research topics they are working on including: student mental health, academic achievement and school safety and security. Discussion followed.

Legislative Action Coalition (LAC) Platform (draft)

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities and Andrew Burns, LAC Chair
Mr. Williams and Mr. Burns presented the proposed LAC platform for 2024, and answered questions afterwards. It was recommended that the platform be brought to action at the January 8, 2024 Business Meeting.

Preliminary Budget Information for FY25

Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent and Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance

Interim Superintendent Voight and Ms. Verbrugge shared preliminary information in regard to the budgeting process for
FY25. With the budget survey closing December 19, community budget meetings slated for mid-January and forecasting information from School Management Systems - it was determined that Executive Cabinet and district leaders bring forth recommendations based on the information gathered to the January 22, 2024 Work Session for further discussion before moving forward with the budgeting process.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board