Summary Minutes of Study (Work) Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed August 18, 2025

A Study (Work) Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, July 21, 2025 at
7:55 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Welcome and Introductions
Allin attendance introduced themselves.

Purpose and Agenda

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Dr. Staloch reviewed the Board of Education Agenda and Working Document, highlighting the topics for discussion this evening, and noting it would be regularly updated and posted with each Study Session agenda moving forward.

District Governance and Policy

e Board Committees .
Discussion in regard to Board committees, purposes, etc. The discussion will be finalized at the August 18, 2025
Study Session.

e Meals/Break for Board Meetings
This discussion was postponed until the August 18, 2025 Study Session.

Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction

e Reimagine Rdale Vision 2030
Dr. Staloch provided an update on the work accomplished by the stakeholder Vision team, the work to be done in their remaining meetings in preparation for bringing their final recommendations to the Board in the Study Session on
September 23, 2025.

e Designation of Identified Official with Authority (IOWA) for the Minnesota Department of Education (MDE)External
User Access System
Dr. Staloch stated she will be authorizing Dr. McDowell as the IOWA proxy for Rdale, so there is an additional person able to provide access for district staff. The proxy document will be on the Consent Agenda for approval in the
Business Meeting agenda on August 4, 2025.

Board Governance

Chair Evans-Becker reviewed the agendas for Board Professional development scheduled for the evening of Tuesday,
July 22, 2025 with Dr. Betty Webb and Nicole Dimich from Lighthouse Learning Community Inc., and all day on
Wednesday, July 23, 2025 with Dr: Dave Webb from Homerun Leadership.

Superintendent Relations

e Annual Review of Superintendent and Board Communications
Dr. Staloch requested the Board review the Email communication protocols for messages sent to School Board members and additional communication protocols with the Superintendent.

e Superintendent Goals
Dr. Staloch noted per her contract that goals for FY25 need to be determined by the Board and her by August 1 each year. After a brief discussion, Dr. Staloch will draft goals, and provide them to the Board for feedback - to return for discussion at the August 18, 2025 Study Session.

Community Engagement
Land Acknowledgemenv/Tribal Flags Discussion

The Board reviewed the Resolution of |SD281 School Board Supporting the Public Reading of a Land Acknowledgement and the Display of Tribal Flags, and will bring it forward for approval under New Business in the Business Meeting agenda for August 4, 2025 - with implementation to begin with the August 18, 2025 Business Meeting.

Information Items

Quiz Bowl - School Board vs. Students

Representative Mike Freiberg's team of high school students would like to compete against the School Board for a half hour prior to either the September 3 or 23 Business Meeting. Please let Chair Evans-Becker know which works best for all, so she can get back to Representative Freiberg.

Future Agenda Topics
No additional topics were determined, aside from those mentioned earlier in this summary.

Study Session concluded at 10:44 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board