ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Special Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Reviewed February 5, 2024

A Special Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, January 23, 2024.
Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

The Special Work Session was called to order at 5:00 p.m.

Director(s) present: ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks (arrived at 5:07 p.m.), Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes,
Caroline Long and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: Helen Bassett.

Welcome - Special Work Session Regarding Safety and Security
Chair Bowman called the meeting to order, and all attending made introductions. Director Holmes introduced the agenda for the meeting.

1.

Review/Overview of Procedures Regarding Staff Injury Report

Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources, reported the following steps for filing staff injury reports:

1. If injured at work, employees call the nurse care line at 1-844-847-8708

2. Information from the call goes into a database to which Ms. O'Hern has access

She stated that we are now below industry average for workman's comp, and are afforded cost savings as a result.

Comments/questions from the Board:

Gap - Report to state each staff member injured by student

If student moves from buildings, staff should know about administrative transfer
Is EAP a gap?

What other supports could we offer to staff?

Review of Steps to Trespass Individuals
Referenced RAS Administrative Procedure (AP) 903 - Visitors to School District Buildings and Sites.

Comments/questions from the Board:

e Gap - do we need a parent handbook?

Who is being trespassed?

Review RAS Policy and AP 903 - Visitors to School District Buildings and Sites
Parent manual/parent code of conduct

Tighten up procedure

Review of Staff Discipline

Steps:

e Report investigation (long process)
Provide blank investigation form to Board
Consider who does the investigation
Executive Summary

Administrative Overview of Referral Forms

e Forms are a lot of work - all different (Excel > Google forms)

e Incident form is common

e Office referral forms are all over the place

e@ What we log internally is what we log to Disciplinary Incident Reporting System (DIRS) (level III and IV)

Comments/questions from the Board:
e Gap - Teacher feedback on EduClimber

ACTION: One common document to track data

e Data warehouse

e Board wants some answers

e Send document with information regarding who took part and number of staff

5. Alternative Technology Options for Tracking Level | and Il Behaviors
Support student behavior once it is tracked.

ACTION: How are calls to office for help being addressed in buildings?
e Discuss EduClimber on February 5, 2024 - EduClimber will present during the Business Meeting e Responses to Board by January 24, 2024
Items 6, 7 and 8 deserve their own time for discussion - Wednesday, Jan 31, 2024 from 7:00-8:00 p.m.
*Note: Video/camera topic postponed till later.
Prepared from notes provided by Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, then submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board