Minutes of Special Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Reviewed June 6, 2023
A Special Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools was held Monday, May 15, 2023. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.
Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon Brooks, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, and Caroline
Long, John Vento; and David Engstrom, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.
FY24 Preliminary Budget - Second Discussion
Presented by Ukee Dozier, Executive Director of Finance
Mr. Dozier went through the updated slides in the presentation for the Board, then fielded questions. The Board will further review the presentation provided, then bring further questions back during the Special Work Session on Monday, May 22,
2023 with a one-page summary to be presented by Superintendent Engstrom.
District 281 10-Year Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Plan
Presented by Alissa Pier, Interim Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation and Ukee Dozier,
Executive Director of Finance
Due to the length of the FY24 Preliminary Budget discussion, this presentation was tabled - to bring to the Special Work
Session on Monday, May 22, 2023.
Board Topics
Presented by Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair
A. Transportation Priorities
This discussion was tabled - to bring to the Special Work Session on Monday, May 22, 2023 (a tour of the bus garage will be held at 5:15 p.m. on May 22, prior to the Special Work Session)
B. Policy 206: Public Participation in School Board Meetings, Complaints about Persons at School Board Meetings and
Data Privacy Considerations
Director Bowman is working on updating the draft of this policy as discussed by the Governance Policy Committee, then will share in preparation for discussion at the Special Work Session on Monday, May 22, 2023.
C. Updated Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
Director Bassett requested that the board review the draft of the report in preparation for discussion at the Special
Work Session on Monday, May 22, 2023.
D. Other
There were no other topics brought forth for discussion.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
1