Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved May 1, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, April 17, 2023, beginning at 7:02 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon Brooks, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Sharing the Success

Tony Patterson - Assistant Director of Achievement and Integration, David Kek - Cooper Culture and Climate
Specialist, Jessica Stewart-Robinson - Armstrong Equity Specialist, Minaida Tanda - Forest/Lakeview Culture and
Climate Specialist, Charles Vickers - Armstrong Culture and Climate Specialist and Student Participants

The group provided an update in regard to the Robbinsdale Area Schools Historical Black Colleges and Universities
(HBCU) and Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI) Research Experience trip that occurred over spring break. The trip is the experiential learning piece, along with a class the students had to take in preparation - and presentation to the
Board. Each student selected for this program will earn an elective credit for their participation.

Superintendent's Report

A. Introduction of Robbinsdale Area Schools Youth Council (RASYC) members (formerly Student Advisory to the
Board of Education (SABE)) by Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and
Activities
17 Students were selected for RASYC, representing the seven cities in our district, varying in grade levels and ethnicities.

B. Student Conversation Action Steps - We are committed to amplifying student voice. Superintendent Engstrom met with students regarding security and safety at Armstrong, Cooper and RA-Highview without the administrators present. Many themes came from these discussions: bathroom access after incidents, lack of understanding of rules and consequences, having adults in hallways are deterrent to bad behaviors, School Resource Officers
(SROs) are valuable for safety - but can be intimidating in uniform, and relationships matter. The students care and want to improve our schools. Superintendent Engstrom will work with administrators to double down working on these themes. Our students wanted to have more conversations with the superintendent in the future like this.

C. Other... Superintendent Engstrom thanked the Achievement and Integration staff for sharing about the HBCU/HSI
Research Experience, and particularly the students for sharing their voice.

Operations

A. Action: Resolution to Establish School Board Ad Hoc Committee
Director Bassett proposed that the resolution be amended to include specific priorities safety and security, then moved approval of the amended resolution. Director Vento agreed and seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Resolution Accepting FY23 Mid-Year Budget Revisions
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the Resolution Accepting FY23 Mid-Year Budget Revisions, and
Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof:
Directors Bassett, Brooks, Evans-Becker and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors
Bowman, Holmes and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Action: 2022-2023 Board Meeting Calendar Changes

MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of the 2022-2023 Board Meeting Calendar Changes, and Director
Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same:
none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Action: Approval of the School Board Calendar for 2023-2024
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of the dates of the School Board Calendar for 2023-2024 amended to remove the additional work sessions, Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Brooks and Vento. And the following voted against the same:
Directors Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes and Long. Said motion failed.
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval of the School Board Calendar for 2023-2024 as presented - including the additional work sessions, Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

E. Action: Resolution Accepting Donations
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval of the Resolution Accepting Donations, and Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

F. Non-Action: Human Resources Staffing Update
Amy O'Hern was available for questions and discussion in regard to the "Human Resources Staffing Update."

Consent Agenda
Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Vento moved pulling Consent Agenda Item 6.A.2. Conference and Travel Request for a separate vote, while going ahead with the vote for the remaining items on the Consent Agenda as one vote, and Director
Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed.

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of Consent Agenda Item 6.A.2. Conference and Travel Request, and
Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bowman,
Holmes, and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Brooks facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Ten community members spoke in regards to: teacher's perspective on school climate and culture, lack of support for Achievement and Integration department and staff of color, safety and security, cell phones in classrooms, teaching trades to students, bathroom access after incidents, and busing safety.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: SE Buel - oats DU I, 2023

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281