Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved April 4, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, March 20, 2023, beginning at 7:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon Brooks Green, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Holmes made a motion to add a vote to the agenda to add a permanent agenda item titled "Human Resources Update" for regular updates to the Board that will include, but not be limited to, current number of open positions, totals of open positions by category
(ex. Nutritional, Custodial) as well as position creations and promotions. Director Brooks Green seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed. Chair Evans-Becker proposed adding the discussion as item 5.B. under Operations, after "Resolution
Accepting Donations."

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the amended Business Meeting agenda. MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Arts Showcase

The Board enjoyed a performance by Rachel Olson, a senior and cellist at Armstrong High School, who had the opportunity to play at Carnegie Hall with some of the best student musicians in the world. Miss Olson was one of 600
in the country who were selected to play from the 10,000 who auditioned.

Sharing the Success

Stella Wright, a senior and poet at Armstrong High School, was selected as Minnesota's 2023 Poetry Out Loud
Champion. Miss Wright recited "I Am," a poem about mental health by John Clare, for the Board. She will go on to compete in the Poetry Out Loud National Finals in May in Washington D.C.

Superintendent's Report

e Welcome to Scouts BSA Troop 5570 from Plymouth Middle School in attendance as part of their work toward their
Citizenship in the Community Merit Badge

e Saturday, March 18:
o Robbinsdale adaptive floor hockey team placed 3rd in the state tournament o Spring orchestra festival was held at Cooper - thank you to those who mentored

e District spring break is next week, March 27-31

Operations

A. Action: Resolution Accepting Donations
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Propose Adding a Permanent "Human Resources Update" to the Business Meeting Agendas
MOTION: Director Bowman moved amending the original motion to approve the addition of the "Human
Resources Update" now, then flushing out the details during the next agenda setting. Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors: Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes and Long. And the following voted against the same: Director Vento. Said motion was declared duly passed.

MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval of the amended motion, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors: Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes and Long. And the following voted against the same: Director Vento. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters. MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Closed Session
The Board recessed to enter a closed session pursuant to Minnesota Statute 13D.03, Labor Negotiations Strategy.

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks Green seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: SK frocks} Date: hovel 20 val 3

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281 ]