ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Reviewed October 7, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, September 16, 2024 at
9:22 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:

https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary

minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Caroline Long, and John
Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: Kim Holmes.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Superintendent Evaluation Discussion

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch shared the following documents in regard to her evaluation process:

e Superintendent Evaluation Timeline

System of Continuous Improvement

(Re)Discover Rdale Strategic Plan

2024-2025 District Strategic Priority Work

Board of Education 2024-2025 Goals, Agenda and Working Document

Establish Goals and Standards

Superintendent - Minnesota Rules 3512-=0510 Program Requirements for All Administrative Licenses

Rdale Vacancy Brochure

e MSBA/MASA Goals and Standards Based Evaluation Model

Superintendent Staloch noted that the most important is the 2024-2025 District Strategic Priority Work document in aligning district work and Board goals. The Board of Education 2024-2025 Goals, Agenda and Working Document will help align the Board's work. All of these documents were included in the packets for transparency to stakeholders.
Superintendent Staloch received questions and feedback from the Board, then requested any further feedback be submitted directly to her prior to the November 18 Work Session with Barb Dorn from MSBA.

Work Session concluded at 10:13 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board