Summary Minutes of Study (Work) Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed June 16, 2025

A Study (Work) Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, June 3, 2025 at
7:54 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Caroline Long, and Dr.
Kenneth Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: Kim Holmes.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Land Acknowledgement and Tribal Flags Consideration

Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair

Chair Evans-Becker led a discussion proposing the Board begin their Business Meeting by reading the Land
Acknowledgement, as well as displaying flags of the Minnesota tribes in the Boardroom. It was recommended that the
Chair ask to speak with the Rdale American Indian Parent Advisory Committee (AIPAC), to see if they would be amenable. Board members in attendance agreed.

Vision Team 2030 - Catch Up

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch provided an update on Vision Team 2030. May's meeting covered daily lived experiences of students, and reviewing results of the facilities assessment - then participating in activities based on the assessment data.
June 18 the Vision Team will be visiting other districts to see flexible learning spaces, etc. Additional meetings may be added this summer to ensure all information and areas are covered prior to moving into determining their recommendations.

District 281 10-Year Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Plan

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Maureen Mullen, Director of Facilities and Operations

Ms. Hoheisel and Ms. Mullen presented in regard to the facility conditions assessment, and an update on the LTFM plan.
The LTFM plan will be presented to the Board for approval on Monday, June 16, 2025 at the Business Meeting.

Outstanding Budget Questions

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Responses to budget questions received by Sunday evening were sent to the Board prior to this meeting. Superintendent
Staloch and Cabinet members were available for discussion with and questions from the Board. The FY26 preliminary budget resolution will come to the Board for approval on Monday, June 16, 2025 at the Business Meeting.

2025-26 Strategic Priority Work

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch reviewed the strategic priority work for next year, determined by feedback from strategic theme teams and district stakeholders, with the intent to bring for Board approval on Monday, June 16, 2025 at the Business

Meeting.

School Board Parking Lot
Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair
The Board discussed bringing back the "parking lot" of topics of importance to bring to future Study (Work) Sessions.

School Board Professional Development

Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair

The dates determined for summer Board professional development are Tuesday, July 22 from 6:00-9:00 p.m. and
Wednesday, July 23 from 9:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. After receiving topic submissions from the directors, Chair Evans-Becker

1

compiled them into a list. The Board was asked to review the list, and provide Chair Evans-Becker with their top three ranked choices by Monday, June 9. The Board will discuss topic selection based on this task at the next Study (Work)
Session.

Superintendent Evaluation Discussion

Added per requested amendment from Director Bassett

Superintendent Staloch reviewed the timeline, with her goals established September 14 and guidance from Barb Dorn from MSBA on November 18 regarding the process. Her rubric with the standards to be scored have not changed since the mid-year evaluation January 21. Superintendent Staloch updated the dates for materials to be ready for the end-of-year evaluation in the timeline. The Board was provided with hard copies of her evaluation materials for review.
They will receive a digital version of the rubric on June 4. The Board agreed to have Ms. Dorn tabulate the scoring rubrics from the directors. The directors each need to submit their completed rubric to her by the end of the day on Thursday,
June 12.

Work Session concluded at 10:24 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board