ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Reviewed March 18, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, March 4, 2024 at 8:25 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
httos://Awww,rdale,org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Board Topics

e School Board Primary Election Discussion
Karylanne Marchand, District Elections Clerk
Ms. Marchand provided information about the primary election process - noting that if the Board wants to participate, a resolution would need to be approved by April 15. After discussion, the Board determined they would not pursue a primary election. As a result, anyone running for the three seats up for election will need to file between July
30-August 13, 2024.

e Interview Training, Stakeholder Report Discussion and Interview Questions and Procedures
Barb Dorn and Craig Morris from the Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) Superintendent Search Team

Ms. Dorn and Mr. Morris reviewed the results of the stakeholder survey, and recommended the Board have them posted on the Superintendent Search page on the website - the Board agreed.

The Board agreed that stakeholder input should be a part of the interview process, and determined they wanted to have 15 people total representing all bargaining units, parents, students, teachers, administrators and community.
Interested individuals would submit a form, and selection would be done randomly by the Superintendent Search team members. They would provide their input during the second round of interviews on April 11 via an online form.

Ms. Dorn and Mr. Morris recommended four candidates to interview, but no more than six. The Board discussed livestreaming the interviews versus posting the videos after the first round were completed, and concluded to post the videos to the Superintendent Search web page of the interviews from the finalists that would move forward to the second round. The videos would be removed prior to the second round interviews on April 11, and the second round interviews would be livestreamed.

Interview questions were reviewed and tentatively selected so a draft could be prepared for final review at the Work
Session on Monday, March 18, 2024.

The position posting closes at midnight on March 6. The Board will receive an email on how to set up their private cloud page to be used for reviewing applications, which will occur between March 8-18, 2024. The Board will discuss and select candidates (not by name) at the March 18, 2024 Work Session.

Due to the late hour, it was agreed that the Board would focus.on interview training at the March 18, 2024 Work
Session.

Other
No items presented.

Work Session adjourned at 11:20 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board