Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Reviewed September 16, 2024
A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Wednesday, September 4, 2024 at
7:56 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.
Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.
Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.
School Board Topics: 200 Series Policies
ReNae Bowman, School Board Chair
The Board approved a contract with Anne Becker from Becker Law, to support the district in policy review, writing, and consulting for the 2024-2025 fiscal year. Superintendent Staloch asked that all feedback notes regarding the 200 series of policies be provided to her to share with Ms. Becker so she can begin creating drafts of them. Superintendent Staloch will check with Ms. Becker to find out when this work will begin. Once the drafts are complete, they will first go to the Policy
Committee for review, then to the entire Board with Ms. Becker for Non-Action (first read), and Action (second read). The goal is to have the 200 series of policies completed by the end of the calendar year.
Other - Determine Date Certain to Complete Discussion of Investigation Report
Superintendent Staloch noted that the attorney and investigator have both been paid for their services in this matter, as they completed their contracted work.
Director Evans-Becker noted there would be additional cost (expensive) for inviting them back for another meeting.
Director Bassett said, "We took action at the last meeting, we need them here. They can speak to the investigation.
The report was not concluded. The Board deserves legal opinion, to stand behind their work. The Board should be involved in the development of the deliverables. They need to be available."
Director Brooks said the last meeting abruptly adjourned - and was not finished. She asked Superintendent Staloch to check to see if we can get them back for this meeting, and find out what any cost would be.
Chair Bowman noted that it would be based on their availability.
Director Bassett asked that Superintendent Staloch check to see if their presence at the next meeting be included in what has already been paid for.
Director Holmes said, "The Board has to police and decide things on our own." She reminded the Board that the closed session in the spring outlined what would happen - and beyond that the Board needs to agree and do Board Business.
No date was set at this time for completion of discussion of the investigation report, due to the need to check in with Mr.
Martin and Mr. Kaufman on cost and availability.
Work Session adjourned at 8:19 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
1