Minutes of Special Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved July 21, 2023

A Special Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Friday, July 14, 2023, beginning at 5:04 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: httos://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 5:04 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon Brooks, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento. Director(s) absent: none. David
Engstrom, Superintendent, was unable to attend due to an emergency medical issue. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Vento moved to accept the agenda, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Operations
A. Review of District job vacancies, recently created positions and future created positions was brought forth by

Directors Holmes, Bowman and Long for Board discussion.

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bowman moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Fe Pret onlffio. 2a, 2023

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281