Minutes of Special Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved September 4, 2024

A Special Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, August 26,
2024, beginning at 6:02 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent.
Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Director Holmes moved to accept the Special Business Meeting agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Special Report: Presentation of the Investigation Report
James Martin, Martin Law PLLC and Isaac Kaurman, Red Cedar Consulting LLC

Mr. Martin recapped what led to this investigation - beginning in April with cross complaints between Board members.
A Special Closed Meeting was held, in which preliminary allegations were considered. Per Minnesota (MN) Statute
13D.05, subdivision 2(b), "A public body shall close one or more meetings for preliminary consideration of allegations or charges against an individual subject to its authority. If the members conclude that discipline of any nature may be warranted as a result of those specific charges or allegations, further meetings or hearings relating to those specific charges or allegations held after that conclusion is reached must be open." Therefore, this and any additional meetings on this topic must be open. Furthermore, when the Board hires an investigator discipline may occur as a result - which also requires an open meeting.

There was one objection to the report provided as an error, which was identified and corrected.

School Board members are not district employees. If data requests are submitted for this report, the Board members'
names will not be redacted - as they are elected officials. However, any employees listed in the report may not be disclosed, and must be redacted.

Mr. Martin and Mr. Kaufman reviewed the report from the investigation of allegations between Board Directors.

The Board Directors had received the report for review prior to the meeting. At the conclusion of their presentation,
Mr. Martin and Mr. Kaufman provided a list of possible next steps:

Do nothing

Pass a resolution directing Board of Education members to follow norms and policies

Undergo training or professional development

Reopen and/or complete mediation

Censure Board of Education members - which requires basis of censure, and vote of at least four members
Remove Board of Education members per MN Statute 123B.09, subdivision 9, which states: "The board may remove, for proper cause, any member or officer of the board and fill the vacancy; but such removal must be by a concurrent vote of at least four members, at a meeting of whose time, place, and object the charged member has been duly notified, with the reasons for such proposed removal and after an opportunity to be heard in defense against the removal."

Po Mo

Mr. Martin reminded the Board members that they are not fulfilling their fiduciary duty and obligation as district trustees for constituents in taking action for the benefit of students, and a safe environment for students and staff.
He also stated that the demoralizing and disruptive behavior has got to stop

Recessed at 6:58 p.m. due to a severe thunderstorm warning in the area. Moved to the basement till cleared to return to the Boardroom.

Reconvened the meeting at 7:20 p.m.
Board members were each provided time to speak.

MOTION: Director Holmes moved to censure Directors Bassett and Brooks, and Director Long seconded the motion.

A friendly amendment by Director Holmes, and seconded by Director Long changed the motion to censure Director

Bassett for reasons listed in Governance Policy 1.4 Board Member Code of Conduct:

e Item 5. Recognize that a School Board member has no legal authority as an individual and that decisions can be made only by a majority vote at a posted School Board meeting

e Item 7. Abide by majority decisions of the School Board, while retaining the right to seek changes in such decisions through appropriate and constructive channels.

e Item 10. Acknowledge that my interaction with the public, press or other entities must recognize the lack of authority vested in individuals and the inability of any Board member to speak for the Board except to repeat explicitly state Board decisions.

Discussion occurred.

Director Long called the question requesting a vote to close the discussion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bassett, Brooks, and Vento. Director Evans-Becker abstained from voting.
Said motion to censure Director Bassett failed.

MOTION: Director Long moved to remove Director Brooks for a violation of Policy 413 - Discrimination, Harassment and Violence, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.

Mr. Martin reiterated MN Statute 123B.09, subdivision 9 (as stated in the list above) has more requirements for removal, and it would not be concluded at the meeting tonight.

MOTION: Director Long amended her motion to censure Director Brooks for a violation of Policy 413 - Discrimination,
Harassment and Violence, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same:
Directors Bassett and Brooks. Director Evans-Becker abstained from voting. Said motion was declared duly passed, censuring Director Brooks.

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved to adjourn the Special Business meeting, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Brooks. Director Bassett abstained from voting. Meeting was adjourned at 8:55 p.m..

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Lie Cant fiche Date: G - "4 OAL

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281