Minutes of Special Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved November 18, 2024

A Special Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools was held Tuesday,
November 12, 2024, for Canvassing the results of the 2024 Election, beginning at 6:00 p.m. A recording of the

meeting can be found at https://rdale.org/discover/school-board, School Board Meeting Webcasts tab.

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker*, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri
Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to

order.
*Dr. Evans-Becker attended remotely from: Cathedral City Public Library, 33520 Date Palm Drive, Cathedral City, California 92234

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Special Business Meeting agenda for November 12, 2024.
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of the agenda, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Operations

Action: Approve the Resolution Canvassing the November 5, 2024 Election Results

Karylanne Marchand, District Election Clerk

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval and waived reading of the resolution (election for open seats on the Board), Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Action: Approve the Resolution Authorizing the Issuance of Certificates of the Election

Karylanne Marchand, District Election Clerk

MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Director Vento called point of order, noting the resolution regarding the ballot question to renew the capital projects levy needed to have a separate roll call vote from the resolution regarding the open seats on the
Board.

MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval and waived reading of the resolution to renew the capital projects levy, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. The special meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Date: V1 to- JE, Zany

ownet A> Jowud Lhe!
School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281