Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Reviewed XXXX
A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, August 7, 2023. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. This was the first Work Session recorded. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School
Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.
Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento. Director(s) absent: none. Superintendent Engstrom was out on medical leave.
Financial Advisory Council (FAC) FY23 Report
Presented by: John Vento, School Board Treasurer and Director and Lennie Kaufman, FAC Chair
Director Vento introduced Mr. Kaufman, who presented the 2023 FAC annual report. Other FAC members present were
FAC secretary Greg Kugler, April Gulley and Katherine Lankford. Time for questions and responses was provided afterwards.
e-Learning Plan for SY 2023-2024
Presented by John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services and Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs
Mr. Groenke and Mr. Pletcher reviewed the e-Learning Plan for SY 2023-2024, noting the items that had changed from last year:
● All scheduled employees will be compensated
● More robust e-learning programming for the early learning student
The Board made a few recommended changes to the plan, which will be presented for non-action at the August 21, 2023
Business Meeting.
Resolution Authorizing Payments in Advance for SY2023-2024 (from the June 20, 2023 Business Meeting)
Presented for discussion by Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair
A discussion regarding the items the Board wanted pulled from the resolution:
● Item 2: Contracted Transportation Services
● Item 3: Registration and Travel Expenses
● Item 9: Special Speaker Fees, Consulting Fees, Contracted Fees
The Board requested information in regard to the impact of pulling these three items from the resolution. Cabinet will provide the information at the Board meetings on August 21, 2023.
School Resource Officers (SROs)
Presented by Marti Voight, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Voight provided a brief update in regard to SROs for the 2023-2024 school year, and the contracts in the works between the cities involved and RAS. A lengthy discussion followed, with further information requested from the Board.
Sandy Hook Promise Update
Presented by Marti Voight, Assistant Superintendent
● An informational one-page report was provided to the Board outlining the timeline for rollout of Sandy Hook Promise
● The district has a three-year Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Sandy Hook Promise for not charge, to be reviewed prior to the end of the MOU as to what the cost may be going forward
● District response team training was held in regard to Sandy Hook Promise the week of July 30
● The Tipline is having accounts set up
● Tip testing will happen at all sites this week - and all sites must get 100% to pass
● Communications templates are coming
● We will be training student leaders
Compensatory Update
Presented by Marti Voight, Assistant Superintendent
1

● An informational one-page report was provided to the Board outlining the eligible uses for compensatory funds
● Building administrators determine how the compensatory funds are expended based on the needs of their buildings
Board Topics
A. Superintendent Contingency Plan
Due to Superintendent Engstrom's medical leave, the Board discussed creating a contingency plan for if:
1. Superintendent Engstrom's medical leave needs to be extended, and/or
2. the School Board decides not to have Superintendent Engstrom return after his medical leave
Chair Evans-Becker was in consultation with the Minnesota School Board Association (MSBA) and the Minnesota
Association of School Administrators (MASA) in regard to the processes for determining/appointing of an interim superintendent. The Board plans on further discussion based on information received from MSBA and MASA.
B. Informational One-Page Reports
The Board requested that the informational one-page reports provided by the Cabinet be shared in Work Session agendas going forward, beginning with August 21, 2023.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
2