Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved February 18, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, February 3, 2025, beginning at 6:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim Holmes, and
Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: Sharon E. Brooks. There was a quorum; and
Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m.

Approval of the Agenda

MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved to add acceptance of Director Brooks' resignation to the agenda as Item H.
under Operations - then accept the amended Business Meeting agenda, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

Rdale Proud - Showcase: Northport Elementary - Building Assets, Reducing Risks (BARR) Program

Lisa Barnholdt, Principal at Northport

Erin Finn, Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS) and BARR Coordinator, and District Alum

Ms. Barnholdt and Ms. Finn shared information regarding the BARR Program, in which Northport is in the second year of implementation of their state-funded grant. BARR is a comprehensive, evidence-based framework designed to improve student outcomes by fostering strong relationships and addressing both academic and social-emotional needs, It focuses on leveraging student strengths, improving teacher collaboration, and using data to identify and address potential challenges early.

Minnesota Department of Education (MDE) Office of American Indian Education - Annual Compliance Report
Beth Tepper, Director of Achievement and Integration

Cathy Estrada, Chair of the RAS American Indian Parent Advisory Committee (AIPAC)

Yvonne Strong, Secretary of the RAS AIPAC

Kirby Hoberg and Aunnie Kramber, Members of the RAS AIPAC

Ms. Tepper introduced Ms. Estrada, Ms. Strong, Ms. Hoberg and Ms. Kramber, who informed the Board that RAS was voted concurrent for the MDE Office of American Indian Education Annual Compliance for the 2024-2025 school year.
They stated the district is making good progress. There are a few areas to focus on:

e closing the achievement gap in math and reading

e improve teaching of Ojibwe/Dakota languages - recommend Rosetta Stone, and hiring teachers

e payment of consultants promptly

Ms. Tepper noted that this was the third year that RAS has been voted in concurrence.

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch reminded everyone of the Rdale mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their

unique potential and positively contribute to their community, then shared some of the highlights since the last

meeting, including:

e Black History Month - all are welcome to attend a celebration of Black History Month on Wednesday, February 12
from 5:30-7:30 p.m. at Robbinsdale Middle School (RMS) to bring students, families and the community together to learn, reflect, and engage in meaningful conversations, with a meal provided

e Planting the Seeds of Learning - Neill Adventure Club started a garden on January 30, for which the students will take turns checking on and watering the plants, learning teamwork and responsibility along the way

e Armstrong High School (AHS) Students Shine for NASA - AHS students attended the NASA Human Research
Program International Biomedical Conference in Austin, Texas, representing RAS as a NASA HUNCH Center of
Excellence - presenting their work to NASA, Axiom, the Air Force and international space partners, receiving feedback and recognition for tackling real-world challenges, and toured the NASA HUNCH Assembly Facility

e State of the District Town Hall Meeting - January 23 at AHS over 90 community members attended to hear the presentation on the district's financial outlook and future planning, with the opportunity to share feedback and ask questions.

e Vision 2030 Team kicked off with their first meeting on January 29 at ESC, 46 members reviewing key data, sharing priorities, and focusing on student success and equity as they begin their work to Reimagine Rdale

e Reminder... the Reimagine Rdale Vision 2030 Community Survey is still open and we want everyone to provide their input

e Reimagine Rdale Community Events will run from 5:30-7:30 p.m. on the following dates:
o February 11 at Plymouth Middle School

February 19 virtually

February 24 at Sandburg Middle School for Pan African community engagement

February 26 at Robbinsdale Middle School for Somali community engagement

March 10 at FAIR Crystal for Indigenous community engagement

March 19 at Robbinsdale Spanish Immersion for Latino community engagement

March 24 virtually

March 26 at Meadow Lake Elementary School

oooo0o090

Superintendent Evaluation Statement

Chair Evans-Becker read the following statement regarding Dr. Staloch's mid-year evaluation into the record:

"We are very pleased and supportive of her performance and commend her on the work she has done leading our district, increasing communication, passing the levy, and working on our budget issues. We have provided specific feedback to her on how to continue to leverage her success in collaboration with the board. We look forward to working collaboratively with her on the challenges the district faces."

Strategic Plan Priority Work: Theme A: Academic Achievement

Bridget Dooley, Director of Elementary Curriculum and Federal Programs

Dr. Frank Herman, Director of College and Career Pathways

Arden Leali- Broberg, Director of Technology Integration and Media Services

Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs

Ms. Dooley, Dr. Herman, Ms. Leali-Broberg, and Mr. Pletcher provided a report to the Board and community regarding
Strategic Plan Theme A: Academic Achievement regarding the following objectives:

e Enhance cultural relevance of curriculum for students

e Enhance an equitable learning system from early childhood to adults

e Deepen preparation for life, college, and career

Operations

A. Resolution Adopting 2024-2025 Revised Budget
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval and waived reading, and Director Hillenbrand seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand
Voting against: Holmes, Long
Motion prevailed with a 4-2 vote.

B. FY24 Final Audit Report
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

C. Changes to the 2024-2025 School Board Meeting Calendar
Due to Monday, April 21, 2025 being a district non-school day, the Listening Time, Business Meeting, and Study
(Work) Session will change to April 22, 2025.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

D. Resolution for 2025-2026 Non-Resident Student Enrollment Capacity Limits
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval and waived reading, Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

E. Resolution of Disavowal of December 10, 2024 Sun Post Letter and Adopting a Statement in Response
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval of the resolution as is and waived reading, and Director Bowman seconded the motion.

Voting in favor: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Long
Voting against: Bassett
Motion prevailed with a 5-1 vote.

F. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
The next Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, February 4, 2025 from
4:30-6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at ESC.

G. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Report
Director Bowman noted that a final review of the RAS Board Handbook is in progress, prior to bringing it back for discussion at a Study (Work) Session.

H. Resignation of Director Sharon E. Brooks

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of Director Brooks' resignation, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

I. Policy Committee Report
Members of the Policy Committee provided an update from their meeting on January 28, 2025. Directors
Hillenbrand and Holmes were welcomed to the committee. The committee is now up to date on everything, and work will continue at a great pace. Director Bowman noted that legal information is being sought regarding what we can do to protect students in the event of ICE raids, and that she is happy with the movement on this by district administration. Director Holmes wants the electronics policy on radar, in light of Governor Walz not allowing student phones/watches in classrooms. Additional information is required on this, get any questions to the Policy Committee. In the meantime, there are already policies, procedures and protocols in place to protect our students. The next meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, February 12, 2025 from 6:00-7:00 p.m. in the
Boardroom at ESC.

J. Administrative Reports
2025 Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Project Scope Revision Summary
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Ms. Hoheisel provided a summary of the LTFM plan changes to projects being done in 2025, in consideration of the work being done with staff, students and the community to determine the long-term direction and needs of the district. For that reason, the projects this spring and summer will primarily focus on operationally essential maintenance and repair work:
e Paving at Forest Elementary e Elevator replacement at Lakeview Elementary e Roofing at Robbinsdale Spanish Immersion School (RSIS), Robbinsdale Middle School (RMS), Sandburg

Middle School (SMS), and Cooper High School (CHS)

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items are considered routine in nature and are enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Board member so requests, in which the item will be removed as a Consent
Agenda item, and addressed. Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

Closed Session

MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved to recess to a closed session pursuant to Minnesota Statute 13D.05, subdivision 3 (b) for attorney-client privilege regarding the warehouse for the lawsuit between the City of New Hope and ISD 281, Director Bowman seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

The Business Meeting recessed at 7:48 p.m.

The Business Meeting reconvened at 8:17 p.m.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjourn the Meeting
MOTION: Director Bowman moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Hillenbrand seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

Meeting was adjourned at 8:19 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Date: 2/18 /25-

Signed:

chool Board Clerk