Minutes of Truth-in-Taxation Hearing and

ROBBINSDALE Public Comment

Area Schools
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved December 15, 2025

The Truth-in-Taxation Hearing and Public Comment of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held
Monday, December 1, 2025, beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education
Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch
School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Welcome and Land Acknowledgement
Chair Evans-Becker welcomed everyone, and read the district Land Acknowledgement.

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker,
Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Approval of the Agenda
MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the Truth-in-Taxation Hearing and Public Comment agenda, Bassett seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

Truth-in-Taxation Hearing and Public Comment

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Minnesota Statute 275.065 requires that a district must hold a public hearing to discuss the proposed property tax levy for taxes payable in a subsequent year, as well as the district's current year adopted budget. The district is also required to adopt the proposed levy and allow for public comment and questioning immediately after presenting. Ms. Hoheisel presented, then opened the floor for public comment - two individuals came forward to speak.

Adjourn the Meeting
MOTION: Wutoh moved to adjourn the Truth-in-Taxation Hearing and Public Comment, Bowman seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.
Meeting was adjourned at 6:32 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Un AA Date. /2-/95- 207s

School Board Glerk, Independent School District 281