Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved June 6, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, May 15, 2023, beginning at 7:03 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon Brooks, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Vento moved to accept the agenda, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Director Bassett made a motion to add the Ad Hoc Committee
Charge to the agenda. Chair Becker proposed it be added under Operations as Item 5.D., prior to Item 5. Consent
Agenda. Director Vento moved to accept the amendment, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon to approve the amended agenda, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Sharing the Success - "Junie B. Jones The Musical, Jr." by FAIR Pilgrim Lane 5th Graders

Students from FAIR Pilgrim Lane performed a number from their inaugural 5th grade capstone project, "Junie B.
Jones The Musical Jr." It was a collaboration between FAIR Pilgrim Lane staff and students, and Stages Theater
Company professionals.

Superintendent's Report

Superintendent Engstrom introduced and read the Robbinsdale Area Schools Land Acknowledgement*, which was created by the district's American Indian Education Department. It will be rolled out districtwide beginning at the start of the 2023-2024 school year, and is written as follows:

"We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people.

We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land.
We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms. We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education and tribal sovereignty."

Operations

A. Action: Changing the May 22 Closed Session for Superintendent End of Year Evaluation to a Special Work
Session, and move to an earlier start time
MOTION: Director Vento moved to accept the calendar change, and Director Brooks seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Resolution Accepting Donations
MOTION: Director Bassett moved to accept the $54,151.46 in donations to the district, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Non-Action: Human Resources Staffing Update
Amy O'Hern provided the first edition of the permanent agenda addition "Human Resources Staffing Update,"
and was available for questions and discussion.

D. Action: Resolution to Establish School Board Ad Hoc Committee to consolidate board priorities on climate and culture, and report back to the board at future work sessions with recommendations.
MOTION: Director Bassett moved to establish the committee, and Director Brooks seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,

Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes, Long and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Bassett facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Ten community members spoke in regards to: transporting outside of neighborhood schools taxing district families when buses travel outside of our boundaries for other students, appreciation for the work of district staff and administrators, concerns regarding graduation rate and student achievement, concerns when looking at schools for her student, the district land acknowledgement - and what the protocol will be districtwide, swimming program being removed from PMS without input, development of a parent panel for the hiring of the principal at FAIR Pilgrim Lane, and the importance of school safety.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

cof y 4 ee
Signed:_- & fa cbtt~ Date: Vene (9, 2022S

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281 0