ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS - INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 281
FINANCIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL (FAC)
MINUTES FOR OCTOBER 22, 2025. 6:30-8:30PM
ESC BOARDROOM
DRAFT
FAC Members
Greg Kugler, Chair Edwin Ochoa
X X
April Gulley Nicole Sandback
Katherine Lankford Sarah Taylor,
X
Secretary
School Board Members
Aviva Hillenbrand, Helen Bassett
Treasurer
ReNae Bowman
Bargaining Group
Participants
X Aunnie Kramber, X Nicole Lee, ASFCME
Robbinsdale Equity Al
X David Lloyd
District 281 Staff
Kristen Hoheisel, Cassandra Jaramillo,
Chief Financial Business Services
X X
Officer Office Manager
Virginia Verbrugge, Dr. Teri Staloch,
Assistant Director of Superintendent
X
Finance
Kristen Hoheisel called the meeting to order at 6:30pm
Agenda Item 1: 2026-2027 Budget Forecast Assumptions - Revenue a. Enrollment Projections a. The group reached consensus to use the demographers' low-K/lowmigration number to come to an anticipated 'butts in seats' enrollment number of 9755. Kristen will apply to the APU (adjusted pupil unit)
calculation.
b. Notes:
i. many felt this was still too optimistic considering the stress on families to open enroll amid pending building shutdown decisions.

ii. Mpls is shutting schools so there is opportunity for RAS to pick up open enrollment if transportation is not changed for next year (qualify for bussing to your nearest neighborhood school).
iii. We are looking at potentially -$18M end of this year so all programs will have to be looked at again, which includes transportation.
Assumption made is that we will not remove transportation options that exist today.
b. General Education Aid c. Levy & State Aid shift or changes a. The group agreed to REVISIT this when we talk expenses b. Notes:
i. MDE recently added an inflation factor capped at 2-3%, however the amount can be lower than the capped range.
ii. The group was pessimistic that MN would give any additional percentage over the inflation amount and feels we could see a negative adjustment.
iii. MN uses a lever to shift dollars paid to districts in order to balance the state budget. We've recently seen 90% of the money promised from
MDE in the year RAS spends it, and 10% short-pay received the following year. Because of the deficit the state is in, we anticipate more will be withheld from the district in the current year raising a risk that we will need to short-term borrow to pay the bills.
d. Compensatory a. The group reached consensus to reduce the 2025-26 value by 10% to $18.8M
b. Notes:
i. $19M today which has nearly doubled since FY2023 and the state indicated they will not have the resources to fund at this level next year. MN is currently holding districts harmless, meaning they will likely adjust down for next year.
ii. Currently 88% receive direct services/12% complete paper applications. Direct services have steadily increased since 2022 (60%
-> 81% -> 85% -> 88%)
iii. They do a random sample of people that do a paper application requiring them to provide proof of income - this is a negative experience that deters some from applying.
iv. A couple members asked how the district can get the word out to the importance of filling out the form to get more money for the district.

e. Referendums a. The group decided not to add anything more for this budget item due to its immateriality.
b. Notes:
i. $64.26 is the max we can ask for - that is only * number of kids =
~$64,260
f. Federal Grants a. The group did some research on how the OBBBA could impact Title funding.
It appears Title 1 will be left untouched and mirror the same dollars as we received this year, while Title 3 will be eliminated. Titles 2 and 4 are recommended to fall into a new state calculator. We reached consensus to reduce the Title revenue by $1M.
i. Title I (Part A) - Improving Basic Programs: Formula funds to districts and schools with high percentages of children from low-income families to help all students meet state academic standards (e.g., schoolwide programs, targeted assistance, evidence-based interventions, family engagement).
U.S. Department of Education ii. Title II (Part A) - Supporting Effective Instruction: Formula funds aimed at improving the quality and effectiveness of teachers, principals, and other school leaders (e.g., professional learning, recruitment/retention, class-size reduction, instructional coaching). U.S. Department of Education iii. Title III (Part A) - English Language Acquisition: Formula funds that support English Learners (and eligible immigrant students) to attain English proficiency and meet state academic standards (e.g., language instruction programs, family/community outreach for ELs). U.S. Department of
Education iv. Title IV - "Well-Rounded, Safe, and Tech-Ready" supports:
1. Part A: Student Support & Academic Enrichment (SSAE) -
formula funds to broaden access to a well-rounded education, improve school conditions for learning (safe/healthy students), and improve the use of technology. U.S. Department of Education
2. Part B: 21st Century Community Learning Centers - competitive grants (run by states) for after-school/summer learning and family engagement, especially for students in high-poverty, low-performing schools.
v. SFP (K-12 Simplified Funding Program) is an Education Dept proposal
(not enacted) to collapse many K-12 formula and competitive grants into one flexible State grant to reduce federal program-by-program

rules. Congress would have to pass it before anything changes. How it would work (as proposed)
1. Funding level: $2.0B in FY 2026, with advance appropriations for the succeeding year (i.e., forward-funded)
2. State use: Minimal federal requirements; States must submit a statewide literacy plan and spend at least 7.5% of their grant on literacy backed by strong/moderate evidence; States may reserve a portion for admin.
3. Set-asides: 0.5% for the Bureau of Indian Education, 0.5% for
Outlying Areas, and up to $10M for Project SERV.
4. Assessments continue: ED says State assessments would continue under Title I even though the separate State
Assessments line is folded into SFP.
g. Special Education - DID NOT GET TO
h. All other formula driven or miscellaneous revenue.
a. Formula driven - No formula change historically for years, group decided to calculate with existing formulas:
i. Extended Time (credit recovery - supporting 5th+ year seniors)
ii. Gifted & Talented iii. Operating Capital iv. ELL
b. Miscellaneous revenue the group agreed to calculate using a 3 year historical average to determine:
i. Q-comp, program dependent ii. Fees (donations, supply and material, athletics/activities, local, parking, criminal background check, transcript)
iii. Rent iv. Gifts/Bequests v. Interest Earnings i. Carryover from prior years
Agenda Item 2: Other
Agenda Item 3: Adjourn
Kristen Hoheisel called the meeting at 8:30pm.