ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*Reviewed May 15, 2023

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools was held Monday, May 1, 2023. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon Brooks, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and
David Engstrom, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: Director Evans-Becker.

Land Acknowledgement

Presented by: Beth Tepper - Director of Achievement and Integration, Tony Patterson - Assistant Director of Achievement and Integration, and American Indian School Climate and Cultural Specialists: Carlie Anderson, Hinhan Loud Hawk,
Mallory Glynn and Angela Guidahl

The group provided historical information, and a definition of land acknowledgements. They introduced the Robbinsdale

School District Land Acknowledgement:

"We acknowledge Robbinsdale Area Schools is located on the homelands of the Dakota and Ojibwe people. We recognize the painful history of genocide and forced assimilation of the Indigenous inhabitants of this land. We honor and respect the many Indigenous peoples who live on and hold sacred these lands, and we stand with members of these
Nations to fight injustice in all of its forms. We uphold the preservation of Dakota and Ojibwe languages, land based education and tribal sovereignty."

Action steps were recommended in conjunction with the land acknowledgement presented. Discussion followed the presentation.

Transportation Insourcing Analysis Follow-up

Mike Archer from CESO presented the updates that had been requested in the Transportation Insourcing Analysis.

The Board will review the new information and work on determining their transportation priorities in the May 15, 2023
Special Work Session. In the meantime, the district is working to acquire/lease buses which will allow the addition of 12-16

more routes for the upcoming school year.

Growth Data

Presented by: John Groenke - Executive Director of Student Services, Bridget Hall - Director of Elementary Curriculum and Federal Programs, Matt Pletcher - Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs and Dr. Cheryl Videen
- Director of Research, Evaluation and Assessment

The Board received a video presentation for review prior to the Work Session, along with the static presentation - to allow more time for questions and responses in regard to the presentation.

FY24 Preliminary Budget Assumptions

Presented by Ukee Dozier, Executive Director of Finance

Mr. Dozier went through the presentation for the Board, then fielded questions. The Board will further review the presentation provided, then bring any further questions back during the Special Work Session on Monday, May 15, 2023.

FY22 Audit Update

Presented by Ukee Dozier, Executive Director of Finance

Mr. Dozier provided an update in regard to the delayed audit for FY22. Mr. Dozier has been working with actuary service
Hildi on clerical errors discovered early in the audit. It was recommended by MMKR that the audit be paused to allow for determination of compensation discrepancies. Hildi has provided MMKR with the discrepancy information, allowing MMKR

to proceed with finalizing the audit to send to MDE.

Board Topics
A. Land Acknowledgement

Due to the length of the Work Session this evening, it was decided to table the discussion on how the Board would like to implement the Robbinsdale School District Land Acknowledgement to the Special Work Session on Monday,
May 8, 2023.

B. Discussion of Policy 206: Public Participation in School Board Meetings/Complaints about Persons at School Board
Meetings and Data Privacy Considerations was also tabled to the Special Work Session on Monday, May 8, 2023.

C. Other
Additional topics were determined for the Special Work Session on Monday, May 8, 2023 as follows:
e Board Priorities: Climate and Culture

Ad Hoc Committee Report: Safety and Security

Board Development

Superintendent Evaluation - Discussion on Timing and Process

Graduation: Board of Education Expectations

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board