ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Business Meeting

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Approved April 20, 2026

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, April 6, 2026, beginning at 7:03 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school- under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Welcome and Land Acknowledgement

Call to Order/Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: None. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Brynteson moved to approve the agenda, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

Rdale Proud: Reimagine Rdale Mathematics and Adoption Timeline

Becky Brodeur, Senior Director of Teaching and Learning and Dr. Megan Schmidt, TOSA - Secondary Mathematics and Science shared information regarding the mathematics adoption process, and the timeline for implementation.

District System of Continuous Improvement

A. Theme A: Academic Achievement - Charter A3: Deepen preparation for life, college, and career
Matt Pletcher, Assistant Director of Teaching and Learning, provided an update of progress to date of Charter A3
regarding preparation of students for life, college, and career. He was joined by: Shaunece Smith - Principal at
Cooper, Jamie Dukowitz - Armstrong Counselor, and Salinee Hough - Cooper Counselor.

B. Theme B: Student Engagement and Wellness - Charter B2: Strengthen practices around student, staff, and school safety
Hayley Heidelberg, Director of Risk Management, provided an update of progress to date of Charter B2 regarding strengthening practices around students, staff, and schools.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.

Long requested removal of Administrative Items: 1. AFSCME Tentative Contract Agreement and 2. Elementary and
Middle School (MS) Mowing Contract Award Recommendation

Brynteson requested removal of Administrative Item 3. Stages Theatre Company/Robbinsdale School District #281
2026-27 Agreement.

MOTION: Bassett moved approval of the Consent Agenda - excluding items removed for separate consideration,
Brynteson seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

MOTION: Long moved approval of the AFSCME Tentative Contract Agreement, Bowman seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Elementary and MS Mowing Contract Award Recommendation,
Hillenbrand seconded

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of the Stages Theatre Company/Robbinsdale School District #281 2026-27
Agreement, Bowman seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, Wutoh

Voting against: Brynteson

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

Recess at 9:02 p.m.
Resume at 9:14 p.m.

Unfinished Business

Robbinsdale Middle School (RMS) Gym and Site Development Agreement - Buyout

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of payment to the City of Robbinsdale for $124,000 termination of contract fee effective year 2026, Bassett seconded

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 Phase I/II Update

Dr. Staloch, Dr. McDowell, and Ms. Hoheisel provided additional information regarding work in progress, and took questions from the Board.

Adjustment to the 2025-26 School Board Meetings Schedule for Additional Study Session Dates

MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of April 27, May 11 and June 8 being added as study session dates to the meeting schedule, Hillenbrand seconded.

Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

New Business

A.

Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $22,169.67

MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the donations, Bassett seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Adjustment to the 2025-26 District Calendar

MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the change of Monday, June 1 to be the last student contact day for grades
K-8 and Tuesday, June 2 to be a packing day for those impacted by school closures and consolidation, Brynteson seconded,

Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

Policy

A.

Committee Report

Vice Chair Wutoh provided an update on current committee work, and noted the next meeting is scheduled for
Wednesday, April 15, 2026.

Second Read (Action) Policies (None for this evening.)

First Read Policies:

e 510 Policy - School Activities

530 Policy - Immunization Requirements

605 Policy - Alternative Educational Services

610 Policy - Field Trips

611 Policy - Home Schooling

612 Policy - Development of Parent and Family Engagement Policies for Title | Programs

623 Policy - Summer School Instruction

e 698 Policy - Teaching State Standards

It is recommended that these policies come forward for Second Read-Action at the April 20, 2026 Business
Meeting.

Administrative Reports

A.

Superintendent's Report - Dr. Teri Staloch

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their

unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every

student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. Highlights of the presentation included:

e 108 Rdale seniors earned MN Bilingual Seals - representing seven languages: Spanish, French, Russian,
Pashto, Somali, Ukrainian, and Vietnamese

e Armstrong selected as a BARR School of Excellence

e@ Cooper junior Kyiaa Cooper qualified for the 2026 National Speech & Debate Tournament, joining three other
Rdale students who also qualified in Congressional Debate

e 2026 Rdale Athena (Sarahya College - Armstrong and Folake Olusesi - Cooper) and Apollo (Eli Kuempel -
Armstrong and Tacarie Siner - Cooper) Award Winners

e Sandburg Middle School receives Full Service Community Schools three-year expansion grant from MDE in the amount of $555,000

e Reimagine Rdale Vision 2030 Spring Community engagement meetings coming up:
o Vision Team + Focus Group - April 16

Community Conversation - April 27 from 6:30-8:30 p.m. at Cooper

Districtwide engagement events - May 6 and May 13 (details to come)

Student and staff engagement - May dates being finalized

oo0o°0

Board Committee Reports and Board Reports

This portion of the agenda provides an opportunity for each Board member to do a brief update regarding work pertaining to their Board duties. At this evening's Listening Time, fifteen individuals spoke regarding the following topics:

Fair wages for teachers (several speakers)

Support for teachers; two-way communication with families; open enrollment root causes/concerns
Dress code policy update - opposition

Listening Session and request process

Process and rush

Difficulty accessing special education services

SOD

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved to adjourn the meeting, and Wutoh seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote. Meeting adjourned at 10:25 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive istant to the Superintendent and School Board

School Board/Clerk, ISD 281