Minutes of Organizational | Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*""Approved January 22, 2024

An Organizational | Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools was held Monday, January 8,
2024, beginning at 6:00 p.m. A recording of the meeting can be found at https://rdale.org/discover/school-board, School
Board Meeting Webcasts tab.

Call to Order and Roll Call of the Organizational Meeting

Acting Chair Bassett called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon
E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Organizational Meeting Agenda

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of the agenda, Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Election of Officers for 2023

Elect Chair

MOTION: Two directors were nominated for chair. Director Holmes nominated ReNae Bowman for chair. Director Bassett nominated Sharon E. Brooks as chair. Director Bowman was elected chair by a 5-2 vote.

Elect Vice-Chair

MOTION: Director Holmes nominated herself for vice-chair. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. The following voted against the same: none. And
Directors Bassett and Brooks abstained from voting. Director Holmes was elected vice chair with 5 votes.

Elect Clerk
MOTION: Director Long nominated Dr. Greta Evans-Becker for clerk. Director Evans-Becker was elected clerk by a 7-0

vote.

Elect Treasurer

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker nominated John Vento for treasurer. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. The following voted against the same:
none. And Directors Bassett and Brooks abstained from voting. Director Vento was elected vice chair with 5 votes.

Other Business

Approve Resolution Delegating the Deputy Treasurer

The School Board was asked to delegate Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance for the duties and position of
Deputy Treasurer.

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval and waived reading, Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

roved Appoin: f Assistan rk
The School Board was asked to reappoint Molly Olson as assistant clerk to the School Board.

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval and waived reading, Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Approval of 2024 Board Compensation

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

1

Approval of Resolution Authorizing the Use of Facsimile Signature and Surety Bond

MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval, Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Chair Bowman requested board members to declare any conflict of interest, per 201 Administrative Policy.
Director Vento declared his position as a salaried, non-commissioned employee of the Center for Effective School
Operations. No other Board members declared conflicts of interest per Administrative Procedure 210.

Review of 2024 Reimbursement for Transportati
The 2024 reimbursement for 2024 transportation was read into the record by Chair Bowman at 67 cents per mile driven.

Adjournment of Organizational Meeting

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento.
And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed, and the organizational meeting adjourned.

Call to Order and Roll Call of the Business Meeting

Chair Bowman called the Business meeting to order at 6:40 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Business Meeting Agenda

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the agenda, Director Long seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Operations

Legislative Action Coalition (LAC) Platform

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the LAC platform, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Policy and Administrative Procedure (AP) 413 - Discrimination, Harassment and Violence

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval and waived reading, Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Mediation Center of Minnesota

Jessica Shryack, Ph.D., Assistant Director of the Office of Collaboration and Dispute Resolution for the State of Minnesota let the School Board know the next steps in the collaborative problem solving process. It will begin with a preliminary consultation (including individual interviews), followed by issue assessment, then process design. She requested two directors volunteer to be a part of the process design team. Chair Bowman and Director Bassett volunteered.

School Board Governance Policy Manual Update

Chair Bowman and Director Evans-Becker provided an update on their review of the School Board Governance Policy
Manual, stating they had worked through the 100 series of policies at their December meeting. At their meeting on
January 25 they will review the 200 series.

hool Saf
Members of the Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee provided their recommendations for School Board consideration.
Their next meeting will be January 17, 2024 at 4:30 p.m.

Student Achievement Update

Toya Stewart Downey, Executive Director of Strategic Communications, Equity and Inclusion
Tony Patterson, Assistant Director of Achievement and Integration

Carlie Anderson, Indian Education School Climate and Culture Specialist

2

Ms. Stewart Downey, Mr. Patterson and Ms. Anderson presented the self-assessment rubric to be used by our district's
American Indian Parent Advisory Committee (AIPAC) to determine whether or not the district is concurrent in the programming requirements set by the Minnesota Department of Education (MDE). A representative from the AIPAC will present their vote to the Board next month, after which Chair Bowman will need to sign off on their vote for submission to the MDE.

Alissa Pier, Interim Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation

Carrie Johnson, Director of Transportation

Ms. Johnson shared an update on the renewal of the contract with Durham for the 2024-2025 year - with a 3% increase in costs.

Ms. Pier discussed the comprehensive facilities planning process. The 10-year long term facilities maintenance plan is required. The Ad Hoc Transportation / Capital Infrastructure committee needs to weigh the cost of going out to a vendor for the comprehensive facilities assessment, vs. doing it in house. Upon determination/completion of that, we can get stakeholders' voices with input for the School Board to consider.

Consent Agenda
Consent Agenda items are considered routine in nature and include administrative, personnel matters and financial

matters.

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval, Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Announcements
January 8, 2024 Announcements can be found in the BoardBook agenda packet.

Adjournment of the Business Meeting

MOTION: Director Vento moved adjournment of the Business meeting, Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed. Meeting was adjourned at 7:54 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Lee Ente Date_/ / AA [302 AL

"Dr. Greta Evans Becker, School Board Clerk