Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Reviewed January 22, 2024
A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, January 8, 2024 at 8:35 p.m.
in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.
Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.
Interim Superintendent Evaluation Tool
Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent
Ms. Voight presented the Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) proposed priority elements in recommendation for use as the tool for her evaluation.
Initial Planning Meeting with MSBA Superintendent Search Team
Barb Dorn, Craig Morris and John Ward
Ms. Dorn, Mr. Morris and Mr. Ward went through the following items in preparation for the superintendent search:
1. Reviewed the process
2. Helped the School Board finalize the timeline
3. Reviewed the vacancy brochure with the School Board, and took feedback for revisions
4. Discussed stakeholder input methods - reviewed qualifications survey, determined focus groups will be held for high school students (for an additional cost of $1395 per day - January 23, 25 and 26), and determined finalist interviews would include school tours
5. Determined Chair Bowman to be the School Board spokesperson
6. Determined Marti Voight, Toya Stewart Downey and Molly Olson to be the in-district contacts
7. Reviewed the search agreement
8. Reviewed two screening priorities with sample application questions, and the School Board collaborated to select the following two questions:
a. Describe your knowledge and experience relating to school district finances and responsibilities.
b. How will you lead to ensure the diverse backgrounds of all members in our school community will be heard and included?
The job posting and stakeholder survey will both go live January 17, 2024.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
1