ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Reviewed January 6, 2025

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, December 16, 2024 at

10:18 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.ora/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, and
Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

200 Series of Policies Review

Anne Becker from Becker Law

Ms. Becker was present to go through the first read of the following policies with the Board:

@ 206 Policy - Public Comment and Public Hearings

e 208 Policy - Policy Development, Adoption, Implementation, and Review

e 214 Policy - Board Professional Development and OUt-of-State Travel

Board members will review these policies between now and the January 6, 2024 Business Meeting, where they will be brought forth under Operations for the first read - after which, they would be brought to the January 21, 2024 meeting for approval.

Budget Reduction Update - Open Enrollment Transportation Analysis

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Ms. Hoheisel presented the changes to Minneapolis open enrollment transportation based on analysis of our current structure:

Driving to our borders only

Continue to pick up Minneapolis students, but transport them to their nearest grade level school
Remove zip codes 55405 and 55430 as transportation zones

Remove magnet transportation for Minneapolis students

Remove PMS Immersion district transportation for out of district students

e Remove preschool transportation for out of district students

Future considerations regarding transportation include bell time changes and walk zones.

Board Topics
ReNae Bowman, School Board Chair e 2025 Board Officers Discussion - directors expressed which positions they would be interested in:
°o Chair: ReNae Bowman - with Directors Holmes and Bassett interested in Dr. Greta Evans-Becker
Vice Chair: Dr. Greta Evans-Becker - with Director Holmes suggesting Caroline Long

ie}
o Clerk: Helen Bassett o Treasurer: Directors in attendance concur position for newly-elected director Aviva Hillenbrand, who has expressed interest in this position
® 2025 Board Committees Discussion
Board reviewed the draft document, worked through proposed assignments in preparation for Director Hillenbrand to

help finalize.
Work Session concluded at 1:50 a.m. on Tuesday, December 17, 2024

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board