Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Reviewed June 24, 2024
A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, June 17, 2024 at 9:50 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.
Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.
Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.
Board Topics
● Superintendent Contract (added after being pulled from Business Meeting Consent Agenda)
The Board reviewed the contract draft that had been reviewed by Dr. Staloch and her attorney, in preparation of returning to them with the Board's counter offer. The Board agreed to the following to propose:
* Base pay: $250,000.00 for the first year, $255,000.00 for the second year, and $260,000.00 for the third year
* Incentive pay of up to 8% for the second and third years
* 3% contribution to 403(b)
* All other items in the contract remain as proposed by Dr. Staloch and her attorney
Chair Bowman requested any further suggestions be submitted by Friday, to allow district legal counsel to prepare the documents to send back to Dr. Staloch and her attorney for review over the weekend.
● Retreat Update and Topic Submission
Due to the late hour of the Work Session, Chair Bowman requested retreat topic submissions be submitted to her no later than Monday, June 24, 2024
Other
Also due to the late hour of the Work Session, the Closed Session pursuant to Minnesota Statute 13D.05, Subdivision
3(a) for Interim Superintendent Evaluation scheduled to follow the Work Session was postponed to Monday, June 24,
2024 following the Special Business Meeting.
Work Session adjourned at 11:44 p.m..
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
1