ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Closed Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*""Approved June 4, 2024

A Closed Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools, ISD 281, was held Tuesday,
May 14, 2024, beginning at 5:00 p.m. in the Superintendent's Office at the Robbinsdale Area Schools
Education Service Center, 4148 Winnetka Avenue North, New Hope, Minnesota.

1. Call to Order and Roll Call
Chair ReNae Bowman called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker,
Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento

Directors absent: None

Other attendees:
e Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent e Jim Martin, Attorney - Martin Law

2. School Board
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved to move to a Closed session pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes 13D.05 subdivision 2 (b) for consideration of allegations or charges against an individual or individuals subject to the board's authority - Director Brooks seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same; none. Said motion was declared duly passed. Recessed to closed session at 5:02 p.m.

Returned from closed session at 5:40 p.m.

MOTION: Director Bassett moved to conduct an investigation of allegations made by board directors against other board members - the Board directs Interim Superintendent Voight and counsel to identify and retain an investigator, Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same; none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

3. Adjournment
MOTION: Director Bassett moved adjournment, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same; none. Said motion was declared duly passed. Meeting adjourned at 5:48 p.m.

sonet_<Lecdevant thr! Date: 7 AAS

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281