Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Approved November 6, 2023

octoper I !
A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, Septerber-48, 2023, beginning at 7:00 p.m. Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bassett called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bassett asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Vento moved to approve the agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Arts Showcase: Cooper Bella Voce Vocal Group

Jennifer Rowan, Director

29 members of the Cooper's Bella Voce Vocal Group performed "Star Spangled Banner" by Joel Jacklich, and My
Land" arranged by Roger Emerson.

Interim Superintendent's Report

Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent

Ms. Voight thanked the Cooper Bella Voce Vocal Group and Director Rowan for their performance. She then thanked
Board members, Toya Stewart Downey, Anthony Williams and all district staff who volunteered at the Great Rdale Get
Together Community Connect event on Saturday, October 7. Ms. Voight notified the Board of the Unified
Communications as a Service (UCaaS) Ring Central proposal, and intent to move forward with replacement of the phone system districtwide. The new system is more cost-effective than fixing our old system, and will provide calling and texting capabilities. The transition is scheduled to occur during winter break.

Operations

A. Action: Resolution Authorizing Sale of General Obligation Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Bonds, Series
2023A
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, Long, and Vento. The following voted against the same: none. And the following abstained from voting: Directors Bowman and Holmes. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Resolution to Support the Forms A and B Grant Applications to the Minnesota State High School
League (MSHSL) Foundation
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Action: Resolution to Support Hennepin County Youth Activities Grant Application
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Action: Resolution Accepting September 2023 Donations of $21,791.36
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

E. Action: Approval of Financial Advisory Council (FAC) Appointees - Greg Kugler and Edwin Ochoa

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
F. Non-Action: Resolution Authorizing Payment of Specific Statements in Advance for FY24 - Part II
Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent and Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance
Ms. Voight and Ms. Verbrugge presented proposed documentation for discussion in regard to Contracted
Transportation Services, Registration and Travel Expenses and Special Speaker Fees, Consulting Fees,
Contracted Fees - in preparation for a vote for approval at the November 6, 2023 Business Meeting.
G. Non-Action: Human Resources Staffing Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Ms. O'Hern was available to address any questions from the Human Resources Staffing Update for October
16, 2023.
H. Non-Action: School Safety Update
Bo Powell, Director of Security
Mr. Powell provided an update on the upcoming Youth Leadership Training on October 17. 15 student leaders will be attending with advisors. Director Holmes asked that the students report back afterwards in regard to
Students Against Violence Everywhere (SAVE).
I. Non-Action: Policy Update
Governance Policy Committee Members
Ms. Voight and Directors Bowman and Brooks met for a couple of hours on Saturday, September 23. October
17, 2023 there will be a Policy Committee Meeting at ESC from 6:00-8:00 p.m. Ms. Voight brought up legislative changes have been made to policy 506: Student Discipline - particularly in regard to the complaint process.
J. Non-Action: Ad Hoc Transportation and Facility/Infrastructure Committee Report to the School Board
Helen Bassett, School Board Chair
Chair Bassett reviewed the report from the Ad Hoc Transportation and Facility/Infrastructure Committee providing the committee's preliminary recommendations:
e Development of a comprehensive three-year plan for transportation services e Consideration of crafting a phased RFP process that contemplates a bus garage e Renewal of Durham's contract for the 2024-2025 school year e Development of the RFP as soon as possible, then determine target dates and a timeline to post the publication
Discussion followed.
K. Non-Action: Board Business Priority Issue Update, Decision Discussion and Next Steps
Helen Bassett, Schoo! Board Chair
Chair Bassett reviewed the Board Business Priority Issue Update. The Board prioritized initiatives as follows via input through individual submissions to Chair Bassett:
Superintendent Search
Fiscal Plan - Baker Tilly
ESSER Funds
Referendum
Transportation
. Bargaining Group Negotiations
The Board will now continue with next steps, beginning with the RFP sent for Superintendent Search Firms -
open through November 2, 2023. Proposals will be reviewed at the Work Session on Monday, November 6,
2023. ;

PASONS

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Vento seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared

duly passed.

Board Reports
Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and

community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Holmes facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Three community members spoke in regards to:

e Accountability and transparency

e Superintendent search

e District financial reporting and communication

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Chair Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Fl woth - Date: No v. by 223

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281