Summary Minutes of Study (Work) Session
ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Reviewed February 18, 2025

A Study (Work) Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, February 3, 2025 at
8:27 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim Holmes, and
Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Budget Updates

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Bridget Dooley, Director of Elementary Curriculum and Federal Programs

Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs

John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources

Purpose: To have a shared understanding of the budget reduction process, actions and next steps in solving the $21
million dollar budget shortfall.

Outcomes:

e Provide recommendations about budget reductions to district programs;

e Review middle school program considerations;

e Understand enrollment assumptions;

e Engage in shared learning to understand baseline and service model staffing for: elementary, middle, and high school
The group reviewed the current budget reduction process, involving: identifying issues, research and reactions, exploring options based on feedback received, decisions made via stakeholder input forms, communication of final decisions presented to leadership teams and the Board. Multiple areas being reviewed including: program offerings - to ensure alignment with district priorities, middle school - evaluating structure and programming for student success, and service models - reviewing to maintain quality and efficiency.

School Board Topics

Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair

Discussion of Meeting and Procedures Format (proposed from Organizational Meeting on January 6, 2025) was tabled until the March 3, 2025 Study (Work) Session.

Work Session adjourned at 10:50 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board