ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved August 5, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, July 22, 2024, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long (arrived at 7:32 p.m.), and John Vento; and Dr. Teri
Staloch, Superintendent. Director Long had not yet arrived. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

MOTION: Chair Bowman moved to approve the agenda, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Director Long had not yet arrived. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique

potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates

career, articulated trades and college ready. She provided an update on activities, which included:

e Participating in the School Board Professional Development on July 19-20, thanking the Board for the time learning together

e Enjoyed being in the Robbinsdale Whiz Bang Days parade, with Director Evans-Becker driving in Superintendent
Staloch's Jeep

e This weekend Superintendent Staloch will be at the Crystal Frolics Family Festival meeting people from the community

e Monday, July 15, 2024 secondary principals were invited to a Welcome Back meeting at ESC to meet
Superintendent Staloch

e Thursday, July 18, 2024 Superintendent Staloch hosted her first District 281 Partnership Meeting to meet the legislators, mayors, city managers, and police chiefs from the areas our district serves

e This is the last week of Freedom Schools, with a finale set for Thursday, July 25, 2024 from 5:00-7:00 p.m. at
Sandburg Middle School

e Superintendent Staloch noted that the RAS Communications Department earned eight awards from the National
School Public Relations Association

Operations

A. Action: Resolution Relating to the Election of Schoo! Board Members and Calling the 2024 School District
General Election
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Director Long had not yet arrived. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: e-Learning Plan for SY 2024-2025
MOTION: Chair Bpw,am moved approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Director Long had not yet arrived. Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Action: Resolution Accepting June 2024 Donations
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval of $375.00 in donations, and Director Vento seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Director Long had not yet arrived. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Update

The committee's next meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, August 24, 2024 at 4:00 p.m. They will be reviewing the work they did in 2023-2024, and prioritizing for 2024-2025.

E. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee update.
The committee has had informal conversations with Superintendent Staloch, and plans to level set and meet.

F. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Update
The task force's next meeting will be Wednesday, July 24, 2024 at 11:00 a.m.

G. Policy Committee Update
The committee will be meeting next on Wednesday, August 7, 2024. The Board is charged with reviewing the 200
series of policies in preparation for discussion at the Work Session on Monday, August 5, 2024.

Special Report: Introducing "Authorization of Issuance of Individual Procurement Cards (P-Cards) Report"
Assistant Superintendent Voight introduced this new report, which will appear under the Consent Agenda as p-cards are issued in the new Ramp electronic system. This new system replaces the BMO p-cards that required paper documentation, streamlining the reconciliation process. Currently there are 29 active cards (the first report for these is in tonight's consent agenda - Item 6.C.6.). When secretaries return, there will be 23 more issued for a total of 52
cards. This report will appear every time a card is issued.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Chair Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Director
Bassett requested the July 8, 2024 Business Meeting minutes (Item 6.A.4.) be reviewed, and if necessary corrected and amended at the next meeting. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Director Long had not yet arrived. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Brooks facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Four individuals submitted requests in regard to: the Robbinsdale
Cooper High School Alumni Association, school safety, scholar successes, and concerns with Board behavior, stating unity = success.

Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Chair Bowman moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.

Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
7:46 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed Ltt Extn ID, Date: dg. S ORS

"pr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, [SD 281