Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved August 18, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, August 4, 2025, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board, under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Welcome, Call to Order, Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. There was a quorum; and Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order.

Approval of the Agenda
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the agenda, Director Wutoh seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items are considered routine in nature and are enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Board member so requests, in which the item will be removed as a Consent
Agenda item, and addressed. Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.
Director Holmes requested item 4.C.2. Non-Licensed Staff Report be pulled for clarification. Then Director Holmes requested item 4.A.3. Business Meeting Minutes for July 21, 2025 also be pulled for review and revision. Chair
Evans-Becker stated the July 21, 2025 Business Meeting Minutes had already been pulled

MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of the Consent Agenda (excluding the Non-Licensed Staff Report),
Director Wutoh seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

Item 4.C.2. Non-Licensed Staff Personnel Report

Director Holmes requested clarification of health positions starting the first day of school, when training would occur for these positions. Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources noted they will have training available during workshop week.

MOTION: Director Hillenbrand moved approval of the Non-Licensed Personnel Staff Report, Director Bassett seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Holmes, Long

Motion prevailed with a 5-2 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business
There were no items this evening.

New Business

A. Resolution for Acceptance of Donations in the amount of $266.84
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the donations, Director Holmes seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

B. 2025-26 Meal Pricing
MOTION: Director Bassett moved to approve the proposed meal pricing for 2025-26, Director Holmes seconded
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

C. Resolution of ISD 281 School Board Supporting Land Acknowledgement and Tribal Flags Display
MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved approval of the resolution of ISD 281 School Board supporting the reading of the Land Acknowledgement by the Board Chair or a Board Director, and the public display of the eleven federally recognized Tribal Nations in Minnesota in the Boardroom at ESC beginning with their Business Meeting on August 18, 2025. Director Holmes seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Policy

Second Read (Action) Policies:

e 533 Policy - Wellness

MOTION: Director Bowman moved to send 533 Policy - Wellness back to the committee to review and revise for consistent language, particularly in section Il. General Statement of Policy, item F. Director Wutoh seconded. Director
Holmes also requested clarification regarding celebrations for schools be reviewed by the committee.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

First Reads -Policies:

e 102.1 Policy - Equity

e 501 Policy - School Weapons

e 534 Policy - Unpaid Meal Charges (School Meals)

MOTION: Director Holmes moved to bring 501 Policy - School Weapons to the August 18, 2025 Study Session for discussion, Director Long seconded.

Voting for: Bassett, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Long

Voting against: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Wutoh

Motion prevails with a 4-3 roll call vote.

102.1 Policy - Equity and 534 Policy - Unpaid Meal Charges (School Meals) will come for Second Read (Action) on
August 18, 2025 at the Business Meeting.

The committee provided a brief report on the policies in progress, aside from those discussed this evening.

Administrative Reports
A. Superintendent's Report - Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. She provided an update on activities, which included a presentation highlighting:
e Lt. Governor Peggy Flanagan visit to Freedom schools on July 7
e Freedom Schools students celebrating National Day of Social Action on July 23
e Engagement in the Community this summer including:
o Golden Valley Pride Festival on June 7
Robbinsdale Whiz Bang Days Parade on July 13
Crystal Frolics Family Festival on July 26
Great Rdale Get Together set for August 9 at Lakeview Terrace Park in Robbinsdale
Golden Valley Festival on September 13
Robbinsdale Main Street Meet and Greet on September 15
e Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 update

ooo090

Board Committee Reports and Board Reports

A. Board Reports
Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Holmes facilitated the Listening Time held at 6:00
p.m. in the Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Four individuals submitted requests and spoke in regard to the following topics:
e Follow up on email request on how RAS Finance Dept will share the revenue(s) and related expenses related

to the recent Safety& Technology Levy, as well as how other levy and referendum funds are utilized

e Board expectations e Supporting our immigrant community e Family Literacy and equity

Move to Closed Session
MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved to go into Closed Session for the following reasons:
1. To receive confidential legal advice pursuant to the attorney-client privilege and Minnesota Statutes section
13D.05, subdivision 3(b), in regard to ISD 281 v. City of New Hope
2. To receive confidential legal advice pursuant to the attorney-client privilege and Minnesota Statutes section
13D.05, subdivision 3(b), in regard to threatened litigation by a former employee
3. To consider labor negotiations strategy pursuant to Minnesota Statutes section 13D.03, subdivision 1
Director Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed on a 7-0 voice vote.
Closed Session began at 8:05 p.m. in the Boardroom.
Board returned from Closed Session at 11:25 p.m.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjourn the Meeting
MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Holmes seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.

Meeting was adjourned at 11:28 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive TY to the Superintendent and School Board
Signed? / 5 NGM Date: 8/6 [aoe

ReNae J. Bowrgén, School Board Clerk