Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved February 21, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, February 6, 2023, beginning at 6:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon Brooks Green, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the agenda, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Special Report: Minnesota Department of Education (MDE) - Office of American Indian Education Annual
Compliance

Presented by Beth Tepper, Director of Achievement and Integration with Representatives of our American Indian
Parent Advisory Committee (AIPAC)

Ms. Tepper and representatives from our district AIPAC informed the Board regarding Robbinsdale Area Schools
(RAS) being voted concurrent for the MDE - Office of American Indian Education Annual Compliance for the
2022-2023 school year.

Operations
A. Non-Action: Propose Changing June 5 Business Meeting and Work Session to June 6 - presented by David
Engstrom, Superintendent
Robbinsdale Academy - Highview, Cooper and Armstrong commencements were scheduled for Monday,
June 5, 2023 at the Minneapolis Convention Center. Due to this being the only night available for these events, it is proposed that the Business Meeting and Work Session originally scheduled for that night be approved to move to Tuesday, June 6, 2023.

B. Non-Action: Propose Changing May 22 Closed Session for Superintendent Evaluation to June 19 - presented by David Engstrom, Superintendent
Superintendent Engstrom proposed moving the Monday, May 22, 2023 Closed Session for his end of year evaluation to follow the Business Meeting on Monday, June 19, 2023. After discussion, the decision was made to keep the evaluation on Monday, May 22, 2023.

C. Non-Action: Review of Resolution for Non-Resident Student Enrollment Capacity Limits for 2023-2024 -
presented by Ukee Dozier - Executive Director of Finance
Mr. Dozier reviewed the Resolution for Non-Resident Student Enrollment Capacity Limits for 2023-2024 with the Board and answered questions.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters. MOTION: Director Vento moved approval with correction to name of chair in minutes, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks Green seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Brodit \- Date: febrers 2, 2025

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281