Summary Minutes of Study (Work) Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed March 17, 2025

A Study (Work) Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, March 3, 2025 at
7:55 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim Holmes, and
Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Budget
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Purpose: To have a shared understanding of the budget reduction process, actions and next steps in solving the $21
million dollar budget shortfall.
Outcomes:
Board Members will...
e review the budget reduction process, recommendations, and district targets e provide perspective and ideas on budget reduction ideas; and e gain shared understanding of the community engagement experience being used during the Reimagine Rdale Vision
2030 process, and provide input and insight.
The group reviewed the 2024-2025 planned budget reductions from spring of 2024, the current budget reduction process, involving: identifying issues, research and reactions, exploring options based on feedback received, decisions made via stakeholder input forms, communication of final decisions presented to leadership teams and the Board. Multiple areas being reviewed including: program offerings - to ensure alignment with district priorities, middle school - evaluating structure and programming for student success, service models, and organizational structure - reviewing to maintain quality and efficiency.
FY26 Preliminary Target Reductions were shared:
e ESC Administration: $1,185,750
e ESC Other Staff: $852,100
e School-Based Reductions (including administration, licensed, and support staff): $13-$15 million e Transportation: $728,000
TOTAL: $15,765,850-$17,765,850
Regarding previous recommendations:
e Talent Development WILL REMAIN, but will be changing the delivery model e 4th Grade Orchestra WILL BE CUT, 5th Grade Band and Orchestra will remain e International Baccalaureate (IB) Programme WILL REMAIN
Other areas being studied:
e Bell time proposed adjustments for efficiency, and potential savings:
o Alignment of middle school start times from 9:20 a.m. to 9:25 a.m., with end time remaining the same - and FAIR
Crystal would align with the other schools o Elementary schools: start time would go from 7:45 a.m. to 7:40 a.m., and end time would go from 2:05 p.m. to
2:00 p.m. - RSIS would align with the other elementary schools, but SEA would remain at their current start/end time o High school arrival would go to 8:25 a.m. from 8:15 a.m. with start bell at the same time, and they would release
10 minutes earlier, allowing flexibility with scheduling o RTC school day would go from 8:30 a.m.-2:30 p.m. to 9:25 a.m.-3:25 p.m.
These proposed adjustments would likely result in the reduction of 50 vans, potentially add buses, and provide a net savings of about $900,000.
e Walk zone proposed adjustments: elementary from .5 mile to .8 mile, middle schools from .7 mile to 1 mile, high schools would remain at 1 mile
1

Activities:
© Studying middle and high school activities participation and cost per activity now o Exploring partnerships and cooperatives

The Board was asked if there were any other ideas they have for consideration or research:

Job sharing - Assistant Principals

Review of Baker Tilly report from 2014 - options A and B

Pause on BARR for a year in favor of more EAs and counselors - putting money into people, instead of programs, and working on BARR with our trained trainers

Hiring freezes for non-essential positions

Furlough program - five- to four-day weeks

Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Alissa Pier, Director of Architecture and Planning

Dr. Staloch and Ms. Pier led the Board through the same Reimagine Rdale process used in the Community Engagement meetings, collecting responses from the Board to the following three World Cafe questions:

1.

If we were leaving Earth and setting up our communities on a different planet, knowing what we know now about technology, how people learn, and what they need to be happy, proud, and successful, and we are not confined to current space, or traditions, or "the way it has always been," what could schooling look like? What if...?

As you help reimagine and seek ways to improve, what do you believe we need to be paying attention to and/or maintaining because it is working for our students at Rdale?

We will be using your input to create a Profile of and Rdale Learner: a guide that articulates district-wide aspirations and success measures regarding the knowledge, skills, and attributes students need to pursue individual dreams and to positively impact their learning community while with us and the global world upon graduation. What are those success measures?

Work Session adjourned at 10:15 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board