Summary Minutes of Study (Work) Session
ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Reviewed April 22, 2025

A Study (Work) Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, April 7, 2025 at
8:36 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and Dr. Kenneth Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Discussion of Meeting Procedures Format
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Mick Waldspurger from Squires, Waldspurger and Mace
Dr. Staloch began the review of the Discussion of Meeting and Procedures Format recommendations she first presented to the Board during the Organizational Meeting on January 6, 2025.
Goal #1: Bring recommendations from Mr. Waldspurger and Ms. Vieira via their email to the Board on October 10,
2025 - Mr. Waldspurger reviewed these recommendations:
1. Maintain focus on students - whenever a Board Member acts, they should first ask themselves "How does this benefit students?"
2. Assume positive intent
3. Formalities minimize personalities - follow Robert's Rules of Order
4. Transparency means Preparation - review materials and send questions to Dr. Staloch prior to the meeting, write questions down before asking them
5. Training is recommended focusing on the proper role of the Board, limits on Board authority, and meeting efficiency
6. Business Meetings vs. Work Sessions - recommend one Study (Work) Session and one Business Meeting per month
7. Be future-focused
Mr. Waldspurger also reviewed the packet of information provided to the Board during their professional development on
October 23, 2025, highlighting the following:
e Onpage 10:
° Item 2 - "District Policy 203.7 states: The Board employs one person - the Superintendent - and holds that person accountable for the performance of the entire District. The Board directs the Superintendent only through decisions of the Board acting as an entity. The Board delegates authority to the Superintendent to pursue District
Goals. The Board/Superintendent relationship is based on mutual respect for their complementary roles."
o Section F - Macro-Management, Not Micro-Management e On page 17:

o Section J - Preparation for Meetings
It was recommended that Board Reports be kept to about 2 minutes each, and if nothing to report, state that - most Board
Directors agreed.
Goal #2: Improved meeting efficiencies
Estimated time allotments have been added to each agenda item, to try to keep meeting nights from continuing past
10:00 p.m. unless under extenuating circumstances. Discussion regarding one robust business meeting for the first meeting of the month, with Listening Time prior at 6:00 p.m., then for the second meeting night of the month a brief business meeting at 6:00 p.m. with a robust Study (Work) Session to follow. A majority of the Board felt this would work.
Goal #3: Board Meeting Sample Agendas
Proposed changes to the Business Meeting would be to put the Consent Agenda after Rdale Proud, followed by
Personnel Items (if needed), Unfinished Business, New Business, Policy, Administrative and Board Committee Reports,
Future Events/Announcements, then adjourn. On the proposed new schedule - the Business Meeting would likely only consist of a possible Rdale Proud and the Consent Agenda.
Proposed changes to the Study (Work) Session - Welcome, Roll Call, Purpose and Agenda, District Governance and
Policy, Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction (academics, budget, strategic plan, etc.), Board
Governance, Superintendent Relations, Public Engagement, Information Items, then adjourn.

1

Both agendas would be aligned to the proposed BOE Annual Goals, Agenda and Working Document - and would like to have it planned out in advance for the entire year. Most of the Board Directors agreed to try the new agenda formats, and the proposed BOE Goals, Agenda and Working Document.

Work on proposed changes and agreed upon recommendations with a target to begin with the new fiscal year -

July 1, 2025.

Request from Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee: Review of Critical Incidents Communications Threshold to

the Board of Education approved in March 2024

Mick Waldspurger, Squires Waldspurger and Mace

Mr. Waldspurger reviewed the document championed by the Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee, and approved by the

Board in March of 2024. He noted it was a well-intentioned document, and provided the following recommendations:

e Emergency health and safety notifications are okay - protocol already in place to email this information to the Board

e Summary data would be good to review either quarterly, biannually or annually - offered to draft a usable template of requested information

e Recommends rescinding this current document, as it forces the superintendent to violate law - rework and come back with a practical protocol for discussion at the April 22 Study (Work) Session

Discussion regarding Financial Advisory Council (FAC)

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

Ms. Hoheisel discussed the FAC, asking the Board to review the FAC by-laws and let her know how they want to proceed.
Determine preferences regarding:

e Whether just the Board Treasurer should be on FAC representing the Board, or Treasurer plus two additional directors e Whether financial information should go to FAC for review first, then bring to Board with feedback

e FAC Candidate application process (review of recommendations from one of the last applicants)

Dr. Staloch and Ms. Hoheisel noted they are accustomed to the district CFO running the FAC. Ms. Hoheisel asked that the
Board provide feedback to her prior to the end of the fiscal year.

Discussion of Cell Phone Policy

Discussion centered around 524 Policy - Internet, Technology, and Cell Phone Acceptable Use and Safety, which was revised and approved on November 4, 2025 as part of the group of policies with legislative updates. Some felt a need for stronger language, defining elementary usage/expectations separately from secondary - and responsible usage for all..

Work Session adjourned at 11:41 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board