Summary Minutes of Study (Work) Session
ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*Reviewed May 5, 2025

A Study (Work) Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, April 22, 2025 at
8:56 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www,rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim Holmes, and
Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Athletics and Activities

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics, and Activities
Mr. Williams' presentation was provided for the purpose of:

e Understanding how activities are allocated in Appendix B: Co-Curricular Activities
Understanding contractual parameters for reducing a co-curricular activity
Reviewing considerations, and discussing impact

Receiving feedback from the School Board

Looking at staffing ratios based on coach/director to student/participant numbers
Ultimate goal - increase student participation

e Seeking student feedback annually regarding what opportunities they want to have available
Six directors in favor of pursuing this process.

Follow up from April 7, 2025 Study (Work) Session

Financial Advisory Council (FAC) Discussion - Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer

e Ms. Hoheisel reviewed the FAC bylaws, highlighting proposed changes - all directors agree to the purpose of the FAC

e Directors asked to review the bylaws, and provide final feedback to Ms. Hoheisel to assemble into a final draft for the next meeting

MOTION: Director Wutoh moved to suspend bylaws for FAC to function with the committee as is, with Board Treasurer

and two additional directors, Director Hillenbrand seconded the motion.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 vote.

School Board Calendar - Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent and Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Schoo! Board Chair e Request to add tentative 2025-2026 meeting dates to Board Google calendars as a placeholder e Format of meetings to be added after approved

School Board Committee Assignments - Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair e Chair Evans-Becker offered Director Wutoh her seat on the Community Education Advisory Council, Director Wutoh accepted

e Committees are nearly halfway through the year
Work Session adjourned at 10:24 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board