ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Organizational | Business Meeting

Area Schools
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
Individual focus. Infinite potential.

"Approved January 24, 2023

An Organizational | Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools was held Monday, January 9,
2023, beginning at 6:00 p.m. A recording of the meeting can be found at https://rdale.org/discover/school-board, School
Board Meeting Webcasts tab.

Call to Order and Roll Call of the Organizational Meeting

Acting Chair Bassett called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon
Brooks Green, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom, Superintendent.
Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Organizational Meeting Agenda

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the agenda and Director Brooks Green seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Ceremonial Oath of Office for Newly-Elected School Board Directors
Acting Chair Bassett presented the newly-elected School Board Directors Bowman, Brooks Green, Holmes and Long.
The ceremonial oath of office was recited by the directors.

Election of Officers for 2023

Elect Chair

MOTION: Two directors were nominated for treasurer. Director Brooks Green nominated Helen Bassett for chair. Director
Evans-Becker nominated Dr. Greta Evans-Becker as chair. Director Evans-Becker was elected chair by a 4-3 vote.

Elect Vice-Chair
MOTION: Director Bassett nominated Kim Holmes for vice-chair. Director Homes was elected vice chair by a 7-0 vote.

Elect Clerk
MOTION: Two directors were nominated for clerk. Director Bowman nominated ReNae Bowman for clerk. Director Brooks
Green nominated Sharon Brooks Green for clerk. Director Brooks Green was elected clerk by a 4-3 vote.

El r e

MOTION: Two directors were nominated for treasurer. Director Vento nominated John Vento for treasurer. Director
Bassett nominated Helen Bassett for treasurer, then withdrew her nomination. Director Vento was elected treasurer by a
7-0 vote.

Other Business

Approve ition Delegating the Deputy Trea

The School Board was asked to delegate Ukee Dozier, Executive Director of Finance for the duties and position of
Deputy Treasurer.

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Approved Appointment of Assistant Clerk
The School Board was asked to reappoint Molly Olson as assistant clerk to the School Board.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Brooks Green seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Approval of 2023 Board Compensation

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

MOTION: Disscfor Bassett moved approval, and waived the reading of the resolution. Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Review of 201 Administrative Policy: Conflict of Interest School Board Members

Chair Evans-Becker requested board members to declare any conflict of interest, per 201 Administrative Policy. Director
Vento declared his position as a salaried, non-commissioned employee of the Center for Effective School Operations.
No other Board members declared conflicts of interest per Administrative Procedure 210.

Review of 2023 Reimbursement for Transportation

The 2023 reimbursement for 2023 transportation was read into the record by Chair Evans-Becker.

Adjournment of Organizational Meeting

MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval, and Director Brooks Green seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Call to Order and Roll Call of the Business Meeting

Chair Evans-Becker called the Business meeting to order at 6:50 p.m.. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon Brooks Green, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Business Meeting Agenda

MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of the agenda, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Operations

Review of Durham Transportation Settlement
Mr. Christian Shafer from Ratwik, Roszak & Maloney, P.A. presented the details of the Durham Transportation settlement

and contract extension, with an opportunity for questions following.

Consent Agenda
Consent Agenda items are considered routine in nature and include administrative, personnel matters and financial

matters.

Superintendent Engstrom requested that Consent Agenda Item 10.C.1. Bid Award for Meadow Lake Elementary School
LTFM for FY23 be removed due to cost changes brought forward at the last minute.

MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of the amended agenda, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed.

Announcements
Jan. 9, 2023 Announcements can be found in the Boardbook agenda packet.

Adjournment of the Business Meeting
MOTION: Director Vento moved adjournment of the Business meeting, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.

Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Motion passed. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Fined Date:_{)( [24 [23

School Board Clerk ~