ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Reviewed September 4, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, August 19, 2024 at 8:45 p.m.
in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

School Board Participation in Rdale Promotional and/or Levy Campaign Events

ReNae Bowman, School Board Chair

D ocuments were provided to the Board Directors with information for staff, and information for the Board relevant to what they can and cannot do at district events. In particular, reminding Board Directors who are running for reelection that campaign materials, attire, etc may not be used when representing the district and School Board. Promoting advocacy language encouraging the vote for the levy renewal is okay, but campaigning is not.

Government Data Practices Act

Marti Voight, Assistant Superintendent and Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources

Assistant Superintendent Voight and Ms. O'Hern clarified the difference between the Minnesota Government Data
Practices Act (MGDPA) and the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), and reviewed RAS Policy 722 regarding Public Data.
They also reminded the Board that School Board Directors are not employees of the district, under the data practices act they are elected officials. Meaning if there are data requests involving Board Directors, they are public entities - names are not redacted. However, if district staff are listed in the requested information - their names will be redacted.

200 Series of Policies

ReNae Bowman, School Board Chair

The Policy Committee's August 7, 2024 meeting was canceled due to lack of quorum. Several Board Directors have submitted suggestions/notes regarding the 200 series of policies. It is requested that those who have not, please do so as soon as possible so they can be organized. The Policy Committee will then review to determine which of them can be passed quickly with minimal changes, and which will require Work Session discussions in an effort to have all of them completed by the end of December leading into winter break.

Work Session adjourned at 9:21 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board