ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Closed Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Approved July 8, 2024

A Closed Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools, ISD 281, was held Monday, June 24,
2024, beginning at 6:36 p.m. in the Superintendent's office at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service
Center, 4148 Winnetka Avenue North, New Hope, Minnesota.

1. Call to Order and Roll Call
Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:37 p.m.

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim
Holmes, Caroline Long and John Vento

Directors absent: None

Other attendee: Marti Voight - Interim Superintendent

2. School Board
MOTION: Chair Bowman moved to move to a Closed session pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
13D.05 subdivision 3(a) for Interim Superintendent Evaluation - Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same; none. Said motion was declared duly passed. Recessed to closed session at 6:37 p.m. Keeping with
District Administrative Policy 205, the proceedings were recorded.

Returned from closed session at 8:42 p.m.

STATEMENT: Chair Bowman regarding Interim Superintendent Marti Voight's evaluation - overall satisfied, and she thanked her for stepping up at a time when we needed her. Ms. Voight thanked the
Board for the opportunity.

3. Adjourn
Chair Bowman moved to adjourn the Closed Session, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman,
Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same; none.
Said motion was declared duly passed. Meeting was adjourned at 8:46 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed:, de Cite Lib pate: DP ~f BPOIL

"Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk, ISD 281