ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Special Work Session

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed June 4, 2024

A Special Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Wednesday, May 15, 2024.
Complete agendas, reports, and presentations (if any) are available at the office and on our website. Special Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

The Special Work Session was called to order at 7:33 p.m.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none

Other attendees:
e Barb Dorn, Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) - Superintendent Search Team e Molly Olson, Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Special Work Session Regarding the Superintendent Search

=

Introductions
2. Candidate Selection
Barb Dorn, MSBA - Superintendent Search Team e Eight applicants at this time e Round 1 finalists to be selected tonight from a list provided to the School Board e Two candidates who best aligned with the criteria set by the School Board were recommended e Directors were asked if they knew any candidates, and if yes - how:
o Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, and Holmes did not know any of the candidates
© Directors Long and Vento were each familiar with a candidate professionally e Directors reviewed the candidates, and after discussion decided to leave the posting open through 11:59 p.m. on
Monday, May 20, 2024 - establishing a new timeline:
o Meet again on Thursday, May 23, 2024 to review the candidates o If candidates are selected for interviews, the first round will occur on Tuesday, May 28, 2024 beginning at 7:00
p.m.
o Round two interviews, if necessary, will occur on Wednesday, May 29, 2024 beginning at 5:00 p.m. - after candidate(s) have toured schools - to ensure interactions with students
3. Determination of:
e Interview Questions
© Questions were reviewed, and Directors Bowman, Evans-Becker and Holmes offered to update them to send to MSBA search team to prepare for review on Thursday, May 23, 2024
e Stakeholder Representation o It was determined that the 16 selected to participate in round two of the first interview series would be invited to participate in round one of this interview series

Meeting adjourned at ...8:42 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board