ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting
Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved amended minutes April 7, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held

beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the a arch imal Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: h NTAWAVAL under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim Holmes, and
Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda.

MOTION: Director Holmes moved to approve the Business Meeting agenda, and Director Bowman seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique

potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates

career, articulated trades and college ready. She provided an update on activities, which included a presentation

highlighting:

e February 12, 2025 - Black History Month event at Robbinsdale Middle School, with 150 in attendance bringing together students, families, and the community with high energy, meaningful reflections, and inspiring

performances

e February 13, 2025 - Dr. Staloch visited FAIR Pilgrim Lane and read the book, "What Do You Do With an Idea?" to a class of third grade students - followed by discussion with them about thinking differently, having grand ideas, and the confidence to pursue new ideas

e Cooper AVID sophomores Cody Morehouse and Peter Ochieng were recognized at the BestPrep Education
Forum for their exceptional work in the BestPrep Student Spotlight Challenge where students explored the pros and cons of generative Al through various creative formats - being named in the top 20 of 180 submissions, which included 65 from Cooper AVID sophomores

e RPathways Internships - Cooper students attended an informational presentation of internship opportunities available through RPathways - which provide students with more hands-on experience, exploration of majors before college, and earning money in the process. Currently there are 28 students districtwide doing internships like this, gaining great practical experience to advance their future careers.

e Budget Cuts and Vision 2030 - We're currently undertaking two distinctly different efforts that are running parallel with each other, but serve different purposes:
o Budget deficit planning - we must cut $21 million to balance the budget and stabilize district finances o Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 - a long-term planning process to create a sustainable and innovative future

Strategic Plan Priority Work - Theme C: Collaboration and Partnerships

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities

Mr. Williams provided a presentation on the work that is happening in regard to Strategic Plan Theme C:
Collaboration and Partnerships.

Operations
A. Filling Board Vacancy
MOTION: Director Holmes moved for use of an interview process to fill the vacant seat, and Director Long seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Holmes, Long
Voting against: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand
Abstaining from vote: Bassett
Motion failed.

MOTION: Director Hillenbrand moved to appoint Dr. Kenneth Wutoh, the candidate in the November 2024
election who received the fourth highest number of votes, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Counsel Vieira noted that to follow statute we needed to appoint using a resolution. Directors Hillenbrand and
Bassett agreed to use the resolution which had been provided to replace their motion. The resolution is as follows:

Resolution Appointing a Board Member

WHEREAS, Minnesota Statutes section 123B.09, subdivision 3, states that a vacancy on the School Board

occurs when a member resigns:

WHEREAS, School Board member Sharon Brooks resigned from her seat on the Board effective February 3,

2025;

WHEREAS, Minnesota Statutes section 123B.09, subdivision 5b, states that any vacancy on a school board

of an independent school district must be filled by board appointment at a regular or special meeting;

WHEREAS, School Board Policy 215 governs the procedure for filling vacancies, and states that if a vacancy

occurs 90 days or more prior to the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November, the Board will follow

Minnesota Statutes section 123B.09, subdivision 5b;

WHEREAS, the vacancy created by the resignation of Sharon Brooks occurred more than 90 days before the

first Tuesday after the first Monday in November;

WHEREAS, Minnesota Statutes section 123B.09, subdivision 5b, does not identify a method for the School

Board to appoint a member;

WHEREAS, the School Board has carefully considered options for filling the vacancy and has determined that

relying on the results of the November 5, 2025, election is a reasonable and appropriate method of identifying

a candidate for appointment;

WHEREAS, Chair Greta Evans-Becker, Director Helen Bassett, and Director Aviva Hillenbrand were elected

as receiving the three highest vote totals in the November 5, 2025 election;

WHEREAS, Kenneth Wutoh had the fourth-highest vote total in the November 5, 2024 election. Specifically,

Kenneth Wutoh received 12,826 votes and the Director with the third-highest vote total received 12,841 votes;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the School Board of Independent School District No. 281, State of

Minnesota, as follows:

1. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 123B.09, Subdivision 5b, Kenneth Wutoh is hereby appointed to fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Board Member Sharon Brooks.

2. Because fewer than two years remain in the unexpired term, by statute there will be no special election, and Kenneth Wutoh will serve the remainder of the unexpired term and until a successor is elected and qualifies.

3. The appointment shall be effective thirty (30) days after the adoption of this resolution as provided in section 123B.09, subdivision 5b.

Moved by: Director Hillenbrand. Seconded by: Director Bassett

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand

Voting against: Holmes, Long

WHEREUPON the resolution was declared duly passed and adopted with a 4-2 vote.

B. 2025-2026 Application for Athletic Cooperative between Cooper and Columbia Heights High Schools for Girls
Swimming
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 5-1 vote.
C. Level Ill Custodial Grievance
Liz J. Vieira reviewed the memo provided, and opened the floor for questions.
MOTION: Director Hillenbrand moved to forgoe a Board hearing and move to arbitration, and Director Bowman seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand
Voting against: Bassett, Holmes, Long
Motion failed.
MOTION: Director Holmes moved to have a Board hearing, and Director Long seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Holmes, Long
Voting against: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand
Motion failed.
Ms. Vieira suggested that if there was no Board decision, further action may proceed without it. The Board requested Ms. Vieira have Mr. Martin follow up on how it will proceed.
D. Bid Award for Next-Generation Firewall (NGFW) Solution
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes
Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 5-1 vote.
E. Proposal for Aruba Central Wireless Network Solution
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 5-1 vote.
F. Resolution for Acceptance of January 2025 Donations in the amount of $27,352.70
MOTION: Director Hillenbrand moved approval, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.
G. First Read: 2025-2026 School Board Meeting Schedule (Draft)
Board requested to hold on this until after Study (Work) Session discussion regarding Meeting Procedures
Format (proposed for April 7, 2025)
H. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
The committee provided a report from their February 4, 2025 meeting.
|. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Report
Chair Evans-Becker and Clerk Bowman met to review the final manual draft. Within the Policy Committee they are discussing processes between policies and procedures. 200 series are Board policies that have been in the works with Anne Becker. We are working to determine how many Board procedures there are, and working to separate them from district procedures.
J. Policy Committee Report
The Policy Committee reviewed the first read of drafts of the following Policies/Procedures:
e 402 Policy - Disability Nondiscrimination e 405 Policy - Veteran's Preference e 407 Policy - Employee Right to Know: Exposure to Hazardous Substances (and corresponding administrative procedure 407.1)
518 Policy - DNR-DNI Orders
519 Policy - Interviews of Students by Outside Agencies (and corresponding administrative procedure 519.1)
531 Policy - Pledge of Allegiance
704 Policy - Development and Maintenance of an Inventory of Fixed Assets and a Fixed Asset Accounting
System e 705 Policy - Investments (and corresponding administrative procedure 705.1)
e 903 Policy - Visitors to School District Buildings and Sites (and corresponding administrative procedure
903.1)
Discussion occurred, and this group will be brought for a second read (action) at the March 3, 2025 Business
Meeting.
The next Policy Committee Meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, February 25, 2025 from 6:00-7:00 p.m. in the
Boardroom at ESC.
H. Administrative Updates e School Improvement Planning (SIP) Mid-Year Review January 24, 2025
John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services
Mr. Groenke reviewed the memo provided summarizing districtwide SIP progress - including successes and opportunities for growth, and the SIP timeline.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.

Director Holmes requested the Licensed Staff Personnel Report be pulled from the Consent Agenda for separate consideration.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, with the exception of Licensed Staff Personnel
Report, and Director Holmes seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

Licensed Staff Personne! Report

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the Licensed Staff Personnel Report, Director Bassett seconded the motion.

Director Holmes pulled the report for further clarification on the 5-year extended leave of absence, not comfortable with it. Director Long also expressed interest in further clarification, as well as her concern for nepotism. Ms. Vieira preferred that questions pertaining to that item on the report be directed to Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human
Resources for clarification. Chair Evans-Becker proposed that the motion on the floor be amended to a vote for only the Resignation/Retirement portion of the report.

MOTION: Director Holmes moved to approve the amended motion, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Holmes facilitated the Listening Time held at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Fourteen individuals submitted requests and spoke in regard to the following topics:

e Equitable application of school disciplinary policy

Opposition to proposed elimination of the IB program

Thank you message to the Rdale team for all the work staff continue to do with the uncertainty

The need for elementary school counselors

IB cuts, and why IB is impactful (benefits)

Education needs, and the need for policy changes

Proposed staffing ratio for APs and counselors

Issues related to problems in special education

The medicating of students in the school system

Need for school change

Staffing cuts related to budget deficit

Ensuring mental health supports and middle school activities remain robust, in light of budget cuts, WHY do those getting punished have to be the ones who did nothing to be part of the problem?

e 4th grade orchestra, and how our Rdale strings program is different from others

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the meeting, and Director Bowman seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote. Meeting was adjourned at 9:50 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale A ea

ReNa J. Bowman, ¢ Xchoor Pacer Clerk, ISD 281

Date: Lipa} L025