ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Business Meeting

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved May 18, 2026

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, May 4, 2026, beginning at 7:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the

meeting can be found at: https: .tdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Welcome and Land Acknowledgement

Call to Order/Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: None. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Brynteson moved to approve the agenda, Wutoh seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

Rdale Proud: School-Based Mental Health Partnerships
Toni Boyden, Director of Student Services shared information regarding wrap-around services being provided to students in our district, along with representatives of People Incorporated, VEEMAH, and Vona.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.

Bassett requested removal of Administrative Items: 4. REA Tentative Contract Agreement, 5. Program Assistants
Tentative Contract Agreement, 6. Program Directors Tentative Contract Agreement, and 7. Cabinet Tentative Contract
Agreement.

MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the Consent Agenda - excluding items removed for separate consideration,
Hillenbrand seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of Administrative Items: 4. REA Tentative Contract Agreement, 5. Program
Assistants Tentative Contract Agreement, 6. Program Directors Tentative Contract Agreement, and 7. Cabinet
Tentative Contract Agreement, Bowman seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business
A. Resolution for District 287 Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Plan
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the resolution, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.
B. Robbinsdale Public School District #281 SOD Notification of Approval
MN Department of Education (MDE) approved the SOD plan.
C. Reimagine Rdale: Vision 2030 Phase I/II Update
Superintendent Staloch, CFO Hoheisel introduced Michael Hart from PTMA Financial Solutions - who provided financial information pertaining to the Vision 2030 plan.
D. RAS Portrait of Our Learners
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the RAS Portrait of Our Learners, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

New Business
A. Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $13,891.40
MOTION: Bassett moved approval of the resolution, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.
B. Achievement and Integration 3-Year Plan
Beth Tepper, Director of Achievement and Integration (A&l) and Tony Patterson, Assistant Director of A&l presented the A&l Plan for July 1, 2026-June 30, 2029.

Recess at 9:15 p.m.
Resume at 9:25 p.m.

District System of Continuous Improvement

A. Theme D: Staff Investment and Impact - Charter D1: Cultivate the district culture to be inclusive, supportive, and welcoming.
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources and Brian Shreve, Special Education Supervisor, provided an update of progress to date of Charter D1 regarding cultivation of the district's culture to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming.

Policy
A. Committee Report
Vice Chair Wutohnoted the next meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, May 20, 2026.
B. Second Read (Action) Policies (None for this evening.)
MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the second read policies, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.
C. First Read Policies (None for this evening.)

Administrative Reports

A. Superintendent's Report - Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. Highlights of the presentation included:
e Armstrong recognized by MN Association of Secondary School Principals (MASSP) with a Silver Star of

Innovation Award for the Preparing Falcons Futures program

e 2026 Athena Awards Celebration on Friday, May 1, 2026

Annual Virtual Art Show available at rdale.org

e School Transition Events to help make transitions smoother for students heading into new buildings beginning in 2026-27

e Community Engagement Events - May 6, 2026 at Armstrong and May 13, 2026 at Cooper, with staff and student input opportunities in May

e Dr. Staloch noted she in light of the district's current financial condition, she offered to waive her contractual right to a $5,000 raise, and continue to work at her current salary for the 2025-27 school year. She will work with the Board Chair on an MOU regarding this offer, with the expectation that all documented terms outlined in her contract remain unchanged.

Board Committee Reports and Board Reports
This portion of the agenda provides an opportunity for each Board member to do a brief update regarding work pertaining to their Board duties. At this evening's Listening Time, fifteen individuals spoke (and six others submitted requests to speak) regarding the following topics:
e Fair wages for teachers (several speakers)
Community trust
New tactic to attract families and focus on the positive in RAS
Building closure experience
Fixing issues now - teachers, EAs, students
Concerns regarding posts
Fairness

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, and Bassett seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote. Meeting adjourned at 9:55 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive A re) intendent and School Board
Ler

iL, MM Date: a/b [202 f

0
awe
V7

School Board Clerk, ISD 281
|
|
|