ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed August 5, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, July 22, 2024 at 8:05 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

2024 Capital Technology Levy Renewal
Jeff Dehler and Krisanthy Sikkila from Dehler Public Relations, LLC
Mr. Dehler and Ms. Sikkila provided a brief presentation providing a pre-referendum community engagement process report, which shared information obtained in the following:
e Morris Leatherman statistically valid survey e Opt-in online district survey e Presentations to staff, Financial Advisory Committee (FAC), Parent/Teacher Organizations (PTOs), Somali and
Spanish-speaking parents, American Indian Parent Advisory Committee (AIPAC), and Career and Education
Technology
Key findings revealed from these sources:
1. The community supports renewal of the capital technology levy
2. Parents and staff support spending levy funds on technology, safety, and security
3. Need to improve School Board dysfunction and administrative management before there is a negative impact on overall community perception of the district
4. Community members feel RAS overall is doing a good job
Recommendations moving forward:
e Superintendent Staloch should conduct a listening tour to learn more about community needs, while also providing a clear vision for the future - then institute a new culture of excellence districtwide e School Board members should focus on the common goal of winning the referendum by providing clear, concise, consistent factual information to the greater community
Superintendent Staloch plans presenting final messaging for the capital technology levy renewal at the August 5 Business
Meeting. .

Work Session adjourned at 8:55 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board