Mia RoBRINSDALE Minutes of Business Meeting and Public Hearing
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved February 2, 2026

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) and Public Hearing was held Monday,
January 20, 2026, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center
(ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: httos://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School
Board Meeting Webcasts."

Welcome and Land Acknowledgement

Call to Order/Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the agenda, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of the Consent Agenda items, Brynteson seconded.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business
A. Proposed Boundary Changes
MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the school boundary adjustments due to the closure of Sonnesyn Elementary
School, Brynteson seconded.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of the school boundary adjustments due to the closure of Noble
Elementary School, Bryntesion seconded.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.
MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the school boundary adjustments due to the closure of Robbinsdale Middle
School, Brynteson seconded.
Voting in favor: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Bassett, Long
Motion prevailed with a 5-2 roll call vote.
B. Resolution Adopting the 2025-26 Revised Budget
MOTION: Bowman moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, Wutoh seconded.
Voting in favor: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Abstaining from voting: Bassett
Motion prevailed with a 5-1-1 roll call vote.
C. Final Statutory Operating Debt (SOD) Plan
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval and waived reading of the final SOD plan, Evans-Becker seconded.
Voting in favor: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Bassett, Long
Motion prevailed with a 5-2 voice vote.

New Business

A. Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $4,925.21
MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the donations, Bassett seconded.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, Wutoh

Voting against: none

Abstaining from voting: Brynteson (conflict of interest)

Motion prevailed with a 6-0-1 roll call vote.

Listening Time will be the only item on the agenda December 22, and will continue until all speakers have been heard.

Policy
The Policy Committee's next meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, January 21, 2026 at 5:00 p.m.

Listening Time Update
Director Hillenbrand provided a brief update on this evening's Listening Time, with five speakers talking about:

SOD Plan

Reading program and extending the FAIR program one more year to explore possibilities and give students a better sense of what is happening and that what they say actually makes a difference

FAIR Crystal

Robbinsdale's support for kids

Administrative Reports

A.

Superintendent's Report

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their

unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every

student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. Highlights of the presentation included:

e District's commitment to safety, dignity, and belonging - protocols to protect student safety and access to learning

e Success of the Robbinsdale Debate Team

Armstrong/Cooper NASA HHUNCH design reviews at Dunwoody College

e Automotive and mechanical career opportunity exploration by district high school students at the Twin Cities
Auto Show

e 32 District students were celebrated at a Certified Nursing Assistant (CNA) pinning ceremony at Hennepin

Technical College (HTC)

Neill first graders and Armstrong student partnership on SEL project inspired by "How | Met My Monster."

Plymouth Middle School's production of "Beauty and the Beast Jr."

Cooper's second blood drive of the year

Noble partnering with PRISM by hosting a schoolwide food drive

Dr. Alejandra Estrada-Burt named 2025 MESPA West Suburban Division Leadership Award

e MN School Boards Association Leadership Conference

S&P Report - Change in District Rating

Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer, reported the drop in the district's rating from BBB to BBB-, with a stable

outlook.

Closed Session

Pursuant to MN statutes 13D.03 for labor negotiations strategy.

MOTION: Wutoh moved to recess to the closed session, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

The Business Meeting was recessed at 8:09 p.m.

The Business Meeting reconvened at 9:35 p.m.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Bassett moved to adjourn the meeting, and Wutoh seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 9:35 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk

Signed:

Date: 4A Z, 20 ZG