ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Business Meeting

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved November 3, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, October 20, 2025, beginning at 6:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of the agenda, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Wutoh seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business (None)

New Business

A. Annual Support of Form A Application to the Minnesota State High School League (MSHSL) Foundation
MOTION: Bowman moved approval and waived reading of the application, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 roll call vote.

B. Annual Support of Form B Grant Application to the MSHSL Foundation
MOTION: Bowman moved approval and waived reading of the application, Wutoh seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 roll call vote.

C. Resolution for Acceptance of Donations in the amount of $77,733.10
MOTION: Basssett moved approval of the donations, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 roll call vote.

Policy

Second Read (Action) - Policies

MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the technical changes to bring the following policies into alignment with the

Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) model policies, Bowman seconded:
e 205 Policy - Open Meetings and Closed Meetings

301 Policy - School District Administration

302 Policy - Superintendent

303 Policy - Superintendent Selection

304 Policy - Superintendent Contract, Duties, and Evaluation

306 Policy - Administrator Code of Ethics

414 Policy - Mandated Reporting of Child Neglect or Physical or Sexual Abuse

418 Policy - Drug-Free Workplace/Drug-Free School

516 Policy - Student Medication and Telehealth

516.5 Policy - Overdose Medication

522 Policy - Title IX Sex Nondiscrimination Policy, Grievance Procedure and Process e 802 Policy - Disposition of Obsolete Equipment and Materials

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

Administrative Reports (None)
Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, and Wutoh seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 6:12 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive istant to the Supefintendent and School Board

Date: Ay 3 2025 ©

Signed:

ReNae J. , School Board Clerk, ISD 281