Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved August 19, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, August 5, 2024, beginning at 6:03 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent.
Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Holmes moved to accept the agenda, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Superintendent Update
Superintendent Staloch read the district mission statement: The mission of RAS is to inspire and educate all learners

to develop their unique potential and to positively contribute to their community.

Superintendent Staloch attended the Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) Summer Session on August 5
with other Cabinet members and some School Board members. Some of the takeaways from this event:

Leadership maiters at all levels and you need excellent governance and management to be successful

The importance of the School Board

Everyone needs to be in alignment, share the same vision, have trust, and communication

Schoo! Boards work to move the good work forward by setting priorities

e Longevity of School Board and the longer the Superintendent stays

All these things in addition to excellence in the boardroom move the good work forward, and support student success.

Superintendent Staloch reported that 14 staff members attended a joint Hennepin West and Minneapolis Regional
Chamber training with RAS Pathways July 29-August 1 with several local businesses like: Mortenson Construction and Xcel Energy. These companies and others are looking for potential externships with our district.

As of July 30th, 25% of our state's trained science of reading teachers are from RAS.
Staff also attended | Love You Guys training around school safety.

In June and July, many of our district teachers participated in Restorative Practices training put on by the Minnesota
Department of Education (MDE) and the Legal Rights Center - it was the eighth year RAS has hosted this training.

Superintendent Staloch introduced the newest district leadership members:

e Jake Mathiason, Special Education Supervisor

e Tamiko Thomas, Principal of Plymouth Middle School (PMS)

e Alex Winn, Director of Custodial Operations

e Maureen Mully, Director of Facilities and Operations

e Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Operator

And noted that we have a full roster of leaders going into the 2024-2025 school year.

Superintendent Staloch met with building leaders to hear their priorities in regard to the strategic plan, and shared the district priorities with them.

Communications Annual Report
Toya Stewart Downey, Executive Director of Strategic Communication, Equity and Inclusion, introduced the
Communications Team:

e Lisa van der Steur, Senior Development Director

e Derrick Williams, Senior Marketing and Communications Specialist

After which, she provided highlights from the 2023-2024 Communications Annual Report and highlighting the different tools used to communicate with families and the community. Ms. Stewart Downey and the team answered questions from the Board afterwards.

Capital Technology Levy Renewal Communications Update

Superintendent Staloch and Ms. Stewart Downey provided a presentation, which detailed information about the important need for support of the Capital Projects Technology Levy Renewal vote coming up on the ballot this fall -
asking that it remain at the same rate, with no increase. They responded to questions from the Board after the presentation.

Operations

A. Non-Action: Board of Education Professional Development (PD) Agreements
Chair Bowman and Vice Chair Holmes lead discussion around the PD agreements that were provided in the agenda for review, with the intent that the Board will bring them to a vote at the August 19, 2024 Business
Meeting to keep the work moving forward unified in agreement.

B. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee
The directors of this committee met July 24th, using the time to regroup and review the last document provided by
Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. They want to make sure the Board and district are in agreement with the items redlined in and determine timing of School Resource Officer (SRO) contracts. Director Holmes recommended pulling the SRO contracts from the Consent Agenda this evening for further discussion.
The committee also requested a meeting with Superintendent Staloch within the next two weeks to discuss what information is provided to the Board around safety and security.

C. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee Meeting
The group has no report this evening, but is excited that we have a new director - and plan to set up a meeting soon.

D. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Update
Chair Bowman, Clerk Evans-Becker, and Director Long met last week to review series 200 policies out loud in preparation for tonight's meeting. Chair Bowman noted that the MSBA has a sample procedure or governance board manual.

E. Policy Committee Update
The Policy Committee is scheduled to meet on Wednesday, August 7, 2024 at 6:00 p.m.

F, Administrative Updates
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources, announced a collaborative relationship with Black Men
Teach, and Brian Harris, Lead Operations Manager. Educators employed by RAS can assist and support at the elementary level, while working on their teaching license. We have reached out to black men who are non-licensed staff to let them know about the opportunity. We have one who is currently enrolled and placed at
Robbinsdale Spanish Immersion School (RSI), with room for two more that will be placed at Northport. We will continue recruiting. The Board would like to meet these people.
Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities reported that we received one out of the three Full Service Community Schools (FSCS) grants. Cooper High School was awarded 2.5 years under the grant funding. Robbinsdale Middle School (RMS) and Sandburg Middle School (SMS) will continue the work as FSCS, and apply for other grants.

Conse d
Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.
MOTION: Director Vento moved to pull the three SRO contracts from the Consent Agenda for further discussion, and

leave ihe remaining agenda intact, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento.
And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of the amended Consent Agenda, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-B Holmes, Long, and Venio. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly pas

ctor Holmes moved for approval of all three SRO contracts, and Director Evans-Becker seconded.

d roll call vote followed. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors vman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director

d motion was declared duly passed.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Holmes moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
7:34 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

soma 4iE Lane hitfir! vie deg LG, 3024

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281