ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed XXXX

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, October 7, 2024 at 7:39 p.m.
in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:

httos://www rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, and
Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: John Vento.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Robbinsdale Area Schools School Board Handbook Draft for Review
ReNae Bowman, School Board Chair
Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk

Chair Bowman and Clerk Evans-Becker guided the Board through the draft of the School Board Handbook provided, noting the recommended revisions they proposed to the Board in an effort to customize it from the Minnesota School
Board's Association (MSBA) template. They requested that the Board read through the entire handbook carefully, and provide feedback to them directly no later than Monday, October 21, 2024. After that, the feedback will be reviewed and implemented prior to bringing a revised draft for review on Monday, November 4, 2024 at the Work Session.

Other - Observations/Recommendations to the Board of Education
Liz Viera from Squires, Waldspurger & Mace, PA.

Ms. Viera was invited to continue the discussion from the Business Meeting in regards to the observations and recommendations to the Board, and allowed questions from the Board. Director Holmes requested that Ms. Viera provide the observations and recommendations she had outlined in:the Business Meeting in writing for review and comment.

Ms. Viera agreed to send them. Chair Bowman mentioned that Ms. Keys would not be coming back for further professional development with the Board, due to work assigned to the Board that was never completed.

Superintendent Staloch noted that she, Mr. Waldspurger, and Ms. Viera are looking into dates in October and November for a two hour training session for the Board. Information will be coming as soon as they determine when it can happen.

Work Session adjourned at 9:06 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board