ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Business Meeting

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved December 1, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, November 17, 2025, beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: https://www,rdale.ora/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."
Welcome and Land Acknowledgement

Call to Order/Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the agenda, Long seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Bassett seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business

A. FY25 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR)
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the ACFR report, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 roll call vote.

New Business

A. Resolution for Acceptance of Donations in the amount of $9,738.25
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the donations, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 roll call vote.

Policy
Second Read (Action) - Policies
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the changes to the following policies, Wutoh seconded:
e 210 Policy - Conflict of Interest School Board Members e 211 Policy - Criminal or Civil Action Against School District, School Board Member, Employee, or Student e 305 Policy - Policy Implementation e 515 Policy - Protection and Privacy of Student Records
709 Policy - Student Transportation Safety
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

Administrative Reports
A. Superintendent's Report - Dr. Teri Staloch
Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. Highlights of the presentation included:
e November 10, 2025 - Annual Fall Music Festival at Orchestra Hall e 2-PMS students selected for the Midwestern Region ACDA Grades 6-9 Soprano/Alto Honor Choir: Violet
Breuch, grade seven and Cecilia Menchaca, grade six e November 12, 2025 - Timberwolves' Crunch visited Sonnesyn Elementary promoting reading with students in grades K-2
November 14, 2025 - National Ruby Bridges Walk to School Day at Meadow Lake
November 21, 2025 - District Round Dance at RMS in celebration of Native American Heritage Month
November 22, 2025 - Kindergarten Enrollment Fair at FAIR School Crystal
Ready, Set, Smile at Neill Elementary, including visit from Representative Mike Freiberg

e Two Adventure Club supervisors presented at the MCEA state conference on building strong relationships with students and families - Sheng Xiong from RSI and Melissa Hanson from SEA
B. Language Access Plan (LAP) - Toni Boyden, Director of Student Services and Beth Tepper, Director of
Achievement and Integration
Ms. Boyden and Ms. Tepper reviewed the draft of the district LAP which is required pursuant to MN Stat. 123B.32,
Subd. 1-3 beginning in SY26, with the intent to move to action in the Consent Agenda at the Business Meeting on
December 1, 2025.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, and Wutoh seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 6:24 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive intendent and School Board

Signed S Z Date: de /, L025°

ReNae J. Bowphan, School Board Clerk, ISD 281