Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved September 23, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Wednesday, September 3, 2025, beginning at 7:07 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board, under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Welcome, Call to Order, Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Long, and Wutoh (virtually); and Dr. Teri
Staloch, Superintendent. There was a quorum; and Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order.

Approval of the Agenda
MOTION: Holmes moved approval of the agenda, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

Rdale Proud - 2025 Summer Programming
A presentation was provided celebrating and highlighting the successful programming Rdale offered this summer.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items are considered routine in nature and are enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Board member so requests, in which the item will be removed as a Consent
Agenda item, and addressed. Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Bassett seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Holmes, Long

Motion prevailed with a 5-2 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business

Discussion - School Board Professional Development (PD)

Chair Evans-Becker, Dr. Dimich and Dr. Webb reviewed the Lighthouse Learning Community proposal for School
Board PD, followed by discussion.

New Business

A. Statement regarding the Violence at Annunciation Church
Chair Evans-Becker read the following statement into the record:
"The Robbinsdale Area Schools' Board of Education expresses deep sorrow and concern following the recent act of violence at Annunciation Church. This tragety has brought immense pain and trauma to families, students, educators, and the broader community.
Our district is grounded in the values of safety, respect, compassion, and the inherent dignity of every individual.
Acts of violence have no place in our schools, places of worship, or any community space. We recognize the profound impact such events have on the wellbeing of our children, families, and staff.
We stand in solidarity with all those affected, and extend our heartfelt support to the victims, their families, and the
Annunciation Church community. We are committed to ensuring that our students and staff feel safe, supported, and valued in every school environment.
As we collectively grieve and process this tragedy, we remain dedicated to fostering peace, safety, and compassion throughout our community."
MOTION: Bassett moved approval of the statement and support of the Annunciation Church community, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

B. Resolution for Acceptance of Donations in the amount of $10,185.11
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the resolution, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

C. e-Learning/Blended Learning Plan for 2025-26
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the e-Learning/Blended Learning Plan for 2025-26. Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Nexus Contract

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Nexus contract, Hillenbrand seconded.

Voting for: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand

Voting against: Holmes, Long

Abstaining from vote: Bassett, Wutoh

Motion prevailed with a 3-2-2 roll call vote.

Agreement - City of Crystal/RAS ISD 281 - Forest Play Area

MOTION: Bowman moved approval and waived reading of the agreement, Bassett seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Policy

A.

Committee Report

Bowman reviewed the memo attached to the agenda, updating the Board on the work being done by the Policy
Committee.

Second Read (Action): 533 Policy - Wellness

MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval and waived reading of 533 Policy - Wellness, Bowman seconded

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote.

First Reads - Policies:

e 410 Policy - Family and Medical Leave

413 Policy - Discrimination, Harassment, and Violence

415 Policy - Mandated Reporting of Maltreatmentof Vulnerable Adults

506 Policy - Student Discipline

514 Policy - Bullying Prohibition

524 Policy - Internet, Technology, and Cell Phone Acceptable Use and Safety

e@ 722 Policy - Public Data and Data Subjects

The recommended changes to these policies are legislative updates, which need to be approved to have them in compliance with MDE. It is recommended that they be brought for a second read (action) at the Business Meeting on September 23, 2025.

Policy review will occur according to the committee's established review schedule. Review schedule defined categorically as: Annual review to maintain compliance to changing legislative action at the state and federal level and from MDE/MSBA. Three and five year review cycles are in-depth reviews of a policy's relevance in changing times that may require review and input from administration, staff and students.

Administrative Reports

A.

Superintendent's Report - Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. Highlights of the presentation included:

e Centering Safety, Connection and Care - honoring our neighbors at Annunciation Catholic School an Church
School Board Recognition Month, thanking the Board for their service to our district

Welcoming new teachers the week of August 18, 2025

All District Kick-off on Monday, August 25, 2025

Record-breaking Vaccine Clinic held at Meadow Lake on August 26, 2025

District PD,Welcome Back Staff Meetings, and Open Houses the week of August 25, 2025

Thanked custodians and facilities staff for their hard work

e First day of school visits and pictures

Staffing Report

Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources, reported an increase in FTE for four buildings to help align resources to student needs. She also noted recruitment is still in progress for open custodial, nutrition services, and education assistant positions.

Family Literacy Program Collaboration

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics, and Activities, provided information about an Adult Academic class moving to New Hope Learning Center so they can learn while their children learn.
It will be open to families to join. Target start date is September 15, 2025.

Board Committee Reports and Board Reports

A.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Bowman facilitated the Listening Time held at 6:00
p.m. in the Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Ten individuals submitted requests and spoke in regard to

the following topics:

Encouraging the Board for upcoming decisions

School bus concerns

Elimination of Safety and Security committee

Due process - who is taking over the IEP/504 due process work?

Superintendent support and Board interactions

Appreciation for collaborative solution to needs of those previously enrolled in the Family Literacy Program
Robbinsdale Cooper Alumni Association 2024 annual report

Move to Closed Session

MOTION: Bassett moved to go into Closed Session to receive confidential legal advice pursuant to the attorney-client privilege and Minnesota Statutes section 13D.05, subdivision 3(b), in regard to ISD 281 v. City of New Hope, Bowman seconded.

Motion prevailed on a 7-0 voice vote.

Closed Session began at 10:10 p.m. in the Boardroom.

Board returned from Closed Session at 10:40 p.m.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjourn the Meeting
MOTION: Holmes moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 vote.

Meeting was adjourned at 10:40 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Supérintendent and School Board

AD ad, Sa Date: 6/43 [10 25

eNae J. Bowman, School Board Clerk