Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved March 17, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, March 3, 2025, beginning at 6:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: httos://www,rdale.org/discover/schoo!-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim Holmes, and
Caroline Long; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and Chair
Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m.

Approval of the Agenda
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of the agenda, and Director Long seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

Rdale Proud - Showcase: Noble Elementary - Computer Science

Michael Rieckenberg, Principal at Noble

Rebecca Powers, Teacher and Media Specialist

Noble Elementary Students

Mr. Rieckenberg introduced Ms. Powers, who provided a demonstration of computer science programming opportunities at Noble with a few first and fourth grade students.

Superintendent's Report
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Superintendent Staloch reminded everyone of the Rdale mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, then shared some of the highlights since the last meeting, including:
e Investing in our staff:
© Cooper High School math teacher Garrett Bruce named a Minnesota Teacher of the Year semifinalist o February 20, 2025 professional development day - staff participated in Tier 1 Behavioral Strategies Training and LETRS sessions e Opportunities and partnerships:
o February 26, 2025 Big Ideas Road Show USA visited Cooper, introducing students from all high school sites to hands-on skilled trades experiences o February 27, 2025 - Tribal Nations Education Committee (TNEC) Tribal Consultation, ensuring input from tribal communities in education policy e February 28, 2025 - Sonnesyn Elementary welcomed state leaders to take a look at the Minnesota Grow Your
Own Program and Bridge2Read, both strengthening teacher development and early literacy.
e Visits to Noble and RSI celebrating / Love to Read Month by reading What Do You Do With an Idea? and highlighting the importance of literacy in student success e Celebrating Students:
o Armstrong and Cooper girls' basketball Senior Nights
© Cooper theater's performance of 42nd Street, and Armstrong theater's performance of Something Rotten, highlighting student creativity and performing arts
© Visiting students at Cooper and Armstrong who are exploring internship opportunities e Reimagine Rdale Survey provides a platform for all to be heard - open to all past and current members of the
Rdale school community, click here to take the survey!
e The remaining Reimagine Rdale Community Events will run from 5:30-7:30 p.m. on the following dates:
o March 19 at Robbinsdale Spanish Immersion for Latino community engagement o March 24 virtually o March 26 at Meadow Lake Elementary School

Demographic Report
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Hazel Reinhardt, contracted Demographer

Ms. Hoheisel introduced Ms. Reinhardt, who provided a presentation regarding the demographic report she has completed containing district enrollment projections and trends. Ms. Reinhardt took questions from the Board afterwards.

Operations

A. Second Read (Action): Policies/Procedures drafts for:
© 402 RAS Policy - Disability Nondiscrimination

405 RAS Policy - Veteran's Preference

407 RAS Policy - Employee Right to Know: Exposure to Hazardous Substances

518 RAS Policy - DNR-DNI Orders

519 RAS Policy - Interviews of Students by Outside Agencies

531 RAS Policy - Pledge of Allegiance
© 903 RAS Policy - Visitors to school District Buildings and Sites
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval of all policies (excluding the procedures), and Director Bassett seconded the motion.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand
Voting against: Holmes, Long
Motion prevailed with a 4-2 vote.

B. Brooklyn Bridge Alliance for Youth (BBAY) Joint Powers Agreement and Amendment
MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval of the amendment to the joint powers agreement, and Director
Bowman seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

C. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
The next Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, March 18, 2025 from
4:30-6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at ESC.

D. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Task Force Report
Chair Evans-Becker and Director Bowman have been working together weekly on the RAS Board Handbook, prior to bringing it back for discussion at a Study (Work) Session.

E. Policy Committee Report
The Policy Committee reviewed the following policies for their first read:
e 409 RAS Policy - Employee Publications, Instructional Materials, Inventions and Creations e 423 RAS Policy - Employee-Student Relationships e 502 RAS Policy - Search of Student Lockers, Desks, Personal Possessions and Student's Person
Second read of these policies will occur at the Business Meeting on Monday, March 17, 2025.
The next Policy Committee meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, March 12, 2025 from 6:00-7:00 p.m. in the
Boardroom at ESC.

F. Administrative Reports
Proposed Level Ill Custodian Grievance Update
Liz J. Vieira from Squires, Waldspurger and Mace, on behalf of Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human
Resources
Ms. Vieira reviewed the update from Ms. O'Hern, noting that due to the Board having a tied vote on whether or not to conduct its own Level III grievance meant the Board rejected a Level III Board hearing. Instead, the matter has been referred to arbitration pursuant to Level IV of the grievance procedure. Both the union and district have agreed to engage in mediation with a mediator from the Bureau of Mediation Services in an effort to resolve the grievances before going on to arbitration.

oooo0oo90o

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items are considered routine in nature and are enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Board member so requests, in which the item will be removed as a Consent
Agenda item, and addressed. Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Hillenbrand seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjourn the Meeting
MOTION: Director Bowman moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

Meeting was adjourned at 7:41 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed:

Date: fp 2L2 OZ2c

chool Board Clerk

ReNae J. Bows,