ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Business Meeting

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved August 18, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, July 21, 2025, beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the

meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and Dr. Kenneth Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

MOTION: Bassett moved to amend the agenda to add infraction of the bylaws, Long seconded.

Voting for: Bassett, Holmes, Long, Wutoh

Voting against: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand

Motion prevailed with a 4-3 roll call vote.

Chair Evans-Becker proposed adding infraction of the bylaws to the agenda as New Business Item 5.D. Infraction of the Bylaws.

Directors Bassett and Holmes appealed the decision of the chair to place Infraction of the Bylaws in 5.D. rather than
5.C. Attorney Vieira noted that a % majority would be needed to overturn the decision of the chair.

Voting in favor of overturning the decision of the chair: Bassett, Holmes, Long

Voting to let the decision of the chair stand: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Decision of the chair stands.

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the amended agenda, Wutoh seconded.

Voting for: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Bassett, Holmes, Long

Motion prevailed with a 4-3 roll call vote.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.

Director Holmes requested that item 4.4.1. Administrative, a. CESO Transportation Contract be removed for separate discussion/consideration.

MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of the Consent Agenda - excluding the CESO Transportation Contract, Wutoh seconded.

Voting for: Bassett, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting no: Holmes, Long

Bowman abstained from voting.

Motion prevailed with a 4-2-1 roll call vote.

Item 4.A.1. Administrative, CESO Transportation Contract

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the CESO Transportation contract, Hillenbrand seconded.

Voting for: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Holmes, Long

Abstaining: Bassett

Contract was approved in a 4-2-1 roll call vote.

Operations

A. Level Ill Custodial Grievance
MOTION: Bowman moved to forgo holding a hearing and referring the grievance to arbitration, Wutoh seconded.
Voting for: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Bassett, Holmes, Long
Motion prevailed with a 4-3 voice vote.

B. Resolution for Acceptance of Donations in the amount of $1,432.51
MOTION: Bassett moved approval of the Resolution for Acceptance of Donations, Holmes seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

C. Request for Special Meeting
MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker made a motion for the Board to determine that budget items 1(a), 1(b), and 1(c)
cannot be reconsidered at a special meeting because: (1) the Board has already voted on those items, (2) the

budget items have been carried out in whole or in part, (3) a motion to reconsider was not made the same day as the original vote or the following day, and (4) no Board member who voted in favor of the budget items has brought a motion to consider. Second by Wutoh.
Vote: motion carried with a voice vote.
MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved that the other items proposed for a special meeting are already being considered on the agenda this evening, and are not appropriate for a special meeting at this time. Second by
Hillenbrand.
Vote: motion carried with a voice vote.

D. Infraction of Bylaws
MOTION: Wutoh moved, and Hillenbrand seconded a motion to have a discussion on the way to call a special meeting at our next work session.
Vote: motion carried with a voice vote.
MOTION: Wutoh moved, and Hillenbrand seconded a motion to suspend the bylaw V.B. - Calling a Special
Meeting, until we can sort calling a special meeting out at a work session.
Voting for: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Bassett, Holmes, Long
Motion to suspend bylaws needs a % majority vote. Motion failed 4-3.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, and Wutoh seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 7:45 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale ae Schools

on ob ge the S dent and School Board r aad
Signed: V ZA Date: 3/3 [202 §

ReNae J. Bowmay/ School Board Clerk, ISD 281