ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Reviewed June 17, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, June 4, 2024 at 8:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:

https://www,rdale.org/discover/schoo|-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary

minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Morris Leatherman Survey

Peter Leatherman from The Morris Leatherman Company

Mr. Leatherman presented the results from the 2024 Residential Survey conducted in preparation for the Capital Projects
Levy Renewal on the election ballot this fall. Questions were taken from the Board afterwards.

FY25 Budget Preliminary Budget

Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance

Michael Hart, PMA Securities LLC

Ms. Verbrugge and Mr. Hart answered questions from the School Board regarding the FY25 preliminary budget, and requested it move to non-action at the June 17, 2024 Business Meeting.

Board Topics

ReNae Bowman, School Board Chair

e Investigation of Board Complaints and Allegations Update
Chair Bowman noted that Red Cedar Consulting was selected by counsel to do the investigation on the complaints and allegations, with interviews being completed on Tuesday, June 18, 2024. At the conclusion of the interviews, the investigator will issue a detailed report. This report typically consists of: (I) a procedural background section detailing the investigation process, (2) an investigation record section itemizing all information considered in reaching their findings, (3) a factual background section or addendum that provides a detailed historical or chronological account of key events, (4) a section presenting their findings and the factual basis for each of those findings, and (5) a section citing all exhibits or referencing an attached exhibit list.

e Mediation Recommendations Discussion
After discussion among the directors, there was no agreement on next steps to move forward.

Other

e Reference Checks Update
Chair Bowman, Director Brooks and Director Holmes provided summaries of the references they had spoken with in regard to Dr. Teri Staloch, all of whom provided high recommendations to hire her. Directors Brooks and Holmes each had references yet to contact, and will report back if/when they receive them.

Work Session adjourned at 10;40 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board