ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools

Minutes of Special Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*Reviewed June 4, 2024

A Special Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Wednesday, May 23, 2024.
Complete agendas, reports, and presentations (if any) are available at the office and on our website. Special Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

The Special Work Session was called to order at 7:02 p.m.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none

Other attendees:

e Barb Dorn, Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) - Superintendent Search Team
Bridget Hall, Interim Assistant Superintendent
Toya Stewart Downey, Executive Director of Strategic Communications, Equity and Inclusion
Molly Olson, Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
Community Members: Chris Gibbs and Ron Stoffel

ee0ee50e

Special Work Session Regarding the Superintendent Candidate Review and Selection

1. Introductions
Candidate Selection
Barb Dorn, MSBA - Superintendent Search Team e Search closed Monday, May 20, 2024 at midnight e Since the last meeting, Candidate C withdrew, and we had one new applicant e MSBA recommends Candidate H for consideration - with experience as superintendent, assistant superintendent, director of curriculum, principal, teacher and coach. The candidate is all about equity, teamwork, collaborative leaders.
e Six directors were in favor of interviewing Candidate H, two were in favor of also interviewing Candidate G...
they voted to only bring Candidate H forward for a first interview on Tuesday, May 28, 2028 at 7:00 p.m.
If deemed necessary, a second interview will be tentatively scheduled for Wednesday, May 29, 2024 at 5:00 p.m.
- with school tours completed prior.
e If Candidate H does not fulfill the Board's expectations, they will move forward with an interim iuperintendent search to have someone in place until the next permanent superintendent is selected.
3. Determination of:
e Interview Questions
© Questions were reviewed, and Directors Bowman, Evans-Becker and Holmes offered to update them to prepare for the interview on Tuesday, May 28, 2024.
e Stakeholder Representation o Most of the originally selected stakeholders are planning to participate by providing input on Candidate H.
4. Candidate Revealed: Dr. Teri Staloch e Director Vento disclosed professional relationship with Dr. Staloch, having worked with her on the AMSD Council, and with TIES: contracts with Prior Lake dissolution

Meeting adjourned at ...8:55 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board