Summary Minutes of Study (Work) Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Reviewed June 3, 2025
A Study (Work) Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, May 19, 2025 at
9:39 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.
Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and Dr. Kenneth Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.
Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.
Carry over from May 5, 2025 Study (Work) Session
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
School Board Calendar - Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent and Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair
● Tentative 2025-2026 meeting dates approved - with minor change:
○ Monday, September 22 moving to Tuesday, September 23 to keep from meeting on Rosh Hashanah
● Format of meetings approved to begin in July of 2025
Critical Incidents Communication Threshold to the Board
● Threshold document was rescinded at Study (Work) Session on April 7, 2025
● Dr. Staloch asked the Board to let her know what summary data they want to see on the district scorecard, which would be shared mid-year and end of year with the Board - a number of topics were discussed
School Board Professional Development
● Board survey of potential dates for summer professional development showed that the following would work best for all: Tuesday, July 22 from 6:00-9:00 p.m. and Wednesday, July 23 from 9:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m.
● Dr. Staloch suggested "Homerun Leadership" - which would provide a solid framework for decision-making, vision as a Board and an action plan
● Other suggested topics included: Board goals, strategic plan - identify commonalities and priorities, Board visioning and monitoring, and function and stay in governance
● Four directors felt need for a facilitator, three directors felt the Board could lead the work themselves
School Board Committee Assignments
● Aside from the recommendation to have Director Wutoh represent the Board on the Community Education Advisory
Committee (CEAC), no additional changes at this time
District Cycle of Improvement: 2025-26 Strategic Priority Work
Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
Dr. Staloch reviewed the district System of Continuous Improvement with the Board, and introduced the 2025-26 Strategic
Priority Work plan - discussion tabled to June 3, 2025 Study (Work) Session due to the late hour.
Land Acknowledgement/Tribal Flags Consideration
Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair
Tabled to June 3, 2025 Study (Work) Session due to late hour.
Study (Work) Session adjourned at 10:26 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
1