ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Reviewed April 15, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, April 2, 2024 at 7:24 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:

https://www.,rdale.ora/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary

minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

FY24 Mid-Year Budget Revisions

Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent and Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance

Ms. Voight and Ms. Verbrugge reviewed the FY24 Mid-Year Budget Revisions with the Board, and responded to questions. Director Long requested to see organizational charts where everyone is in SY24. Chair Bowman asked the
Board what deductions they could make to their budget, and requested a line-item report for review. Ms. Voight requested that further questions/feedback be provided prior to bringing to action at the Business Meeting on May 6, 2024.

School Resource Officers (SROs)

Kim Holmes, School Board Vice Chair

Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent

Bo Powell, Director of Security

The Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee met on March 27, 2024 - where police chiefs from Crystal, New Hope,
Plymouth and Robbinsdale attended to discuss the updated SRO bill that was signed on March 24, 2024. Topics of conversation included the language used in the bill, mandatory training for SROs, as well as concerns surrounding assigned responsibilities and authority in our schools. The Board will need to vote on whether or not the SROs will return to our buildings for the remainder of SY24.

Board Topic - New Superintendent Contract
ReNae Bowman, School! Board Chair and Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk

The Board worked together to create the first draft of a contract for the new superintendent, beginning with the Minnesota
School Boards Association (MSBA) 2024 revised template, and comparing it with the contract of the most recent district superintendent. Clerk Evans-Becker took notes, to be put together and sent to the district attorney for preparation of the first official draft.

Work Session adjourned at 10:38 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board