ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed November 6, 2023

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, October 16, 2023 in the
Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Data Warehouse

John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services

Bridget Hall, Director of Elementary Curriculum and Federal Programs

Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs

Mr. Groenke, Ms. Hall and Mr. Pletcher reviewed the vendors selected for comparison to find the best data warehouse and visualization platform, and explained the choice of EduClimber for these functions - then responded to questions.

Staffing Ratios Information for Discussion

John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services and Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance

Mr. Groenke and Ms. Verbrugge brought forth the staffing ratio information that was approved for the 2023-2024 school year for discussion prior to recommendations being brought forward for approval this year.

Board Topics
Helen Bassett, School Board Chair
1. Superintendent Search Update - Request for Proposal (RFP) was sent out to five vendors requested by the
Board, and open to the public with submissions due November 2, 2023
2. Ad Hoc Transportation and Facility/Infrastructure Committee Update - discussion was held during the Business
Meeting instead

Old Business
Helen Bassett, School Board Chair
1. School Board Closed Session
Closed session pursuant to Minnesota Statute 13D.03, Labor Negotiations Strategy originally scheduled for
October 16, 2023 following the Work Session was postponed to Monday, November 6, 2023 10 minutes after the

adjournment of the Work Session.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board