ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS - INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 281
FINANCIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL (FAC)
MINUTES FOR March 14, 2023
APPROVED May 16, 2023
FAC Members
X Lennie Kaufman, Chair X April Gulley
Walter Gray X Katherine Lankford
X Greg Kugler, Secretary X Nicole Sandback
O. Barry Rogers
School Board Member
X John Vento, Treasurer
District 281 Staff
X David Engstrom, Superintendent X Ukee Dozier, Executive Director of Finance
X Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance
X Karylanne Marchand, Business Office Manager
Agenda Item 1: Welcome and Introductions
Chair Lennie Kaufman called the meeting to order at 6:36 p.m., with the FAC members and others noted above in attendance. The meeting was held in-person at the Educational Service Center. Mr. Kaufman opened the meeting by welcoming the attendees.
Agenda Item 2: Acceptance of Agenda
The agenda had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was properly made and seconded to accept the distributed agenda. The motion passed unanimously.
Agenda Item 3: Approve January 17, 2023 Meeting Minutes
The minutes had been distributed to the members prior to the meeting. A motion was properly made and seconded to accept the minutes. The motion passed unanimously.
Agenda Item 4: Long Term Debt
Mr. Ukee Dozier introduced representatives from PMA Securities, Mr. Michael Hart and Mr. Steve
Pumper. PMA Securities presented an overview of the operating referendum authorities, capital referendum levy, and an overview of District outstanding debt.
Agenda Item 5: 403(b) Update
Mr. Dozier provided an update regarding the deferred compensation claim. Due to the timing of the discovery and actuarial process the audit for FY22 has been delayed. Any adjustments to the general fund will be further communicated at a later meeting.
Agenda Item 6: FY23 Budget Update
Mr. Dozier provided an update on the FY23 budget, actual results, and related adjustments.

Agenda Item 7: FY24 Budget Update
Mr. Dozier provided an update on the FY24 budget process. The administration and school board have been mindful of the 2023 Legislative session and its impact as an input to the budget. The preliminary budget will be presented in the May FAC meeting.
Agenda Item 8: Future Meetings
• May 16, 2023
• June 6, 2023
Agenda Item 9: Other
Mr. John Vento brought FAC's attention that transportation would be a future topic of discussion.
Agenda Item 10: Adjourn
After a proper motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting, the meeting was adjourned at
8:34 p.m.
Meeting minutes submitted by Greg Kugler