ROBBINSDALE Minutes of Work Session

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Reviewed March 20, 2023

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools was held Monday, March 6, 2023. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon Brooks Green, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

In-District Transportation Analysis

Jeff Connell, Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation introduced representatives of CESO, who proceeded to inform the Board of their analysis in regard to bringing transportation back in-house in our district. The presentation was followed by discussion, feedback and request for further information which will be brought back within

1-2 months.

Safety: Attendance and Behavior Presentation
The Board and in agenda posted to the public were provided a link toa video of the presentation for review prior to this work session. The Board, Superintendent and Cabinet members engaged in lengthy discussion about the presentation.

Board Topics
A. Board Norms - Chair Evans-Becker distributed the norms document, requesting all to review in preparation for

discussion at the next work session.

B. Parking Lot - Chair Evans-Becker distributed a summary of the 2020-2021 and 2021-2022 parking lot items, requesting all to review, add topics and rank them for discussion at a future work session.

C. Board of Education Priorities/Goals/Evaluation - tabled

D. National School Board Conferences - tabled

Other
Superintendent Engstrom recommended getting the Board out for school and learning center tours. After some

discussion, Director Bowman recommended perhaps one location per month.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board