ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed August 19, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, August 5, 2024 at 7:55 p.m.
in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Financial Advisory Council (FAC) FY24 Report

John Vento, School Board Treasurer

Lennie Kaufman and Nicole Sandback, FAC Members

Director Vento introduced Mr. Kaufman and Ms. Sandback. Mr. Kaufman provided a presentation outlining the role of FAC, and giving their observations and recommendations to the district and Board. A more in depth report from FAC was provided in the agenda, as well. Mr. Kaufman also noted that the FAC is looking for a new Chair, as he is giving up his seat on FAC after 15 years. There are currently two seats available on FAC. Anyone interested in submitting an application can do so here prior to August 31, 2024 at 4:00 p.m.

School Board Topics: 200 Series Policies

ReNae Bowman, School Board Chair

The Board discussed where and how to start reviewing the 200 series of policies, with a sense of urgency due to agreement from the retreat in July to have them completed by the end of this calendar year. The Board was provided the
Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) model policies, the RAS policies and the Prior Lake/Savage Area Schools
(PLSAS) policies to look at side by side. There are limitations as to what can be rewritten, as some policies are dictated by statute. It was recommended that the Board first determine which ones need to be discussed, and which ones can be reviewed and moved forward easily. Between themiall, there is a lot of consistency. Another recommendation was to have the Policy Committee determine which ones need the most Board discussion, and which can be approved quickly.
General consensus agreed, if provided input for them prior to August 27 in a matrix of suggestions on one document submitted to Assistant Superintendent Voight and Chair Bowman. Ms. Voight will share a matrix document with the Board for this purpose.

Work Session adjourned at 9:55 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board