Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved June 16, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Tuesday, June 3, 2025, beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the

meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Aviva Hillenbrand, Caroline Long, and Dr.
Kenneth Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: Kim Holmes. There was a quorum; and
Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

Approval of the Agenda

MOTION: Director Hillenbrand moved approval of the agenda. Director Bassett seconded the motion - with the addition of a Superintendent Evaluation Discussion to the Study (Work) Session.

Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

Rdale Proud - Showcase: Zachary Lane Elementary - Junior Master Gardener Program

Matt Phelps, Principal at Zachary Lane Elementary

Emily James, Assistant Principal

Jenny Ellison, former ZLE Teacher, Current Long Term Substitute Teacher, Green Team Member

Ann Dybvig, Master Gardener, Former ZLE Parent

Amy Domini and Asha Goude, Parents

Zachary Lane Students

Mr. Phelps, Ms. James, Ms. Ellison, Ms. Dybvig, Ms. Domini, and Ms. Goude presented information regarding the
Junior Master Gardener Program at ZLE, and students shared what they enjoy about the program.

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch reminded everyone of the Rdale mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their

unique potential and positively contribute to their community, then shared some of the highlights since the last

meeting, including:

e Celebration of all district graduates

e End-of-year celebrations in all of the schools

e Indian Education Honoring Event, recognizing the accomplishments our Native students and families

e Hosting site visits at RMS and Cooper for the 2025 National Full-Service Community Schools Engagement

Conference

Honoring our staff - years of service recognitions and retirements

e Rdale Teacher of the Year, Markus Hahn - Band Director at Cooper and EA of the Year, Kelly Larson from FAIR
School Crystal

Legislative Report

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics, and Activities

Mr. Williams provided a brief report on behalf of the Legislative Action Coalition (LAC) highlighting the 2025 legislative

platform, and advocacy:

e Increase the formula to ensure districts have adequate, reliable and predictable funding to provide programs that ensure every student develops their unique potential

e Enhance Educator Workforce

e Advocacy - Cabinet staff attended the AMSD/MASA day at the Capitol, meeting with senators and representatives

Mr. Williams provided a legislative session summary, noting a special session will be required to finish the work not

completed in the session.

Operations

A. Report - Levy Planning - Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer and Michael Hart from PMA Securities
Ms. Hoheisel and Mr. Hart provided an overview of financial options specific to Long Term Facilities Maintenance
(LTFM), debt and levy management options to be weighed. After reviewing the options, the Financial Advisory

Council (FAC) recommends increasing the Paygo LTFM funding in an effort to keep tax payers cost as neutral as possible.

B. FY26 Preliminary Budget and Resolution - Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Ms. Hoheisel was available to answer any further questions regarding the FY26 preliminary budget since presented at the May 19 Study (Work) Session. It will be brought forward for approval at the June 16, 2025
Business Meeting.

C. 2025-26 Resolutions for Membership in the Minnesota State High School League (MSHSL)
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval for Armstrong High School, Director Bowman seconded the motion
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.
MOTION: Director Hillenbrand moved approval for Cooper High School, Director Wutoh seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

D. Second Read (Action) Policies:
e 101 - Legal Status of the School District e 101.1 - Name of the School District e 102 - Equal Educational Opportunity e 103 - Complaints: Students, Employees, Parents, Other Persons
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, Director Wutoh seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

E. Policy Committee Report
The next Policy Committee Meeting will be Wednesday, June 4, 2025 at 5:00 p.m. at ESC.

F. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
The committee sent an email to the attorney requesting a draft of recommendations regarding their requests by
Monday, May 30, 2025, and has not received any potential meeting dates.

G. Administrative Updates - None this evening

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items are considered routine in nature and are enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Board member so requests, in which the item will be removed as a Consent
Agenda item, and addressed. Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, Director Hillenbrand seconded the motion.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 5-1 voice vote.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjourn the Meeting
MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bowman seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 vote.

Meeting was adjourned at 7:40 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superinfendent and School Board