ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Special Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Reviewed July 21, 2023

A Special Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools was held Tuesday, June 20, 2023. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. Work session summary minutes are

not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long and John Vento; and David Engstrom, Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Graduation Rates Data and Intervention Strategies

Presented by John Groenke - Executive Director of Student Services, Dr. Cheryl Videen - Director of Research Evaluation and Assessment and Matt Pletcher - Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs

A video link was provided of the presentation, along with the PowerPoint presentation posted to the public for review prior to the meeting. Mr. Groenke, Dr. Videen and Mr. Pletcher participated in discussion with the Board.

District 281 10-Year Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) Plan

Presented by Alissa Pier, Interim Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation and Ukee Dozier,
Executive Director of Finance

Ms. Pier presented an outline of the maintenance projects scheduled for this summer and beyond, followed by an

opportunity for questions and discussion.

Board Topics

Presented by Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Chair

A. Minnesota Open Meeting Laws

Presented by Christian Shafer from Ratwik, Roszak & Maloney

Mr. Shafer presented information regarding Minnesota Open Meeting Laws, and responded to questions from the
Board.

Board Governance Policy 1.10 - Board Committees was tabled to Monday, July 24, 2023 in a Special Work Session
Land Acknowledgement Discussion was tabled to Monday, July 24, 2023 in a Special Work Session

Policy 206: Public Complaints and Participation in School Board Meetings/Proceedings was tabled to Monday, July
24, 2023 in a Special Work Session

Transportation Priorities was tabled to Monday, July 24, 2023 in a Special Work Session

Other

There were no other topics brought forth for discussion.

908

am

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board