ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Reviewed April 2, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, March 18, 2024 at 9:05 p.m.
in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
https://www,rdale.org/discover/schoo|-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes (via Zoom),
Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Capital Projects Levy

Marti Voight - Interim Superintendent

Virginia Verbruggee - Assistant Director of Finance

Interim Superintendent Voight and Ms. Verbrugge were available to respond to any questions regarding the information posted and provided on the Capital Projects Levy. Additional information was requested by the Board, which will be provided in the packets for the upcoming Business Meeting on April 2 - at which time the topic will be brought for vote.

Resolution for Non-Resident Student Enrollment Capacity Limits

Marti Voight - Interim Superintendent

Virginia Verbruggee - Assistant Director of Finance

Interim Superintendent Voight and Ms. Verbrugge were available to respond to any questions regarding the information posted and provided on the Operating Referendum. Additional information was requested by the Board, which will be provided in the packets for the upcoming Business Meeting on April 2 - at which time the topic will be brought for vote.

Board Topics e Superintendent Search Discussion
The Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) Superintendent Search Team
Superintendent candidates were reviewed, and six were selected as semifinalists for Round 1 interviews on
Saturday, April 6, 2024.

The stakeholder input plan was reviewed. It was agreed that there will be a total of 16 stakeholders randomly selected by the MSBA Superintendent Search Team from a pool of people who submitted a form for a chance at being selected to provide input during the Round 2 interviews of the finalists. The stakeholders will have from
Thursday, March 21 through 5 p.m. on Friday, March 29 to submit their forms.

It was determined that the Board would question the candidates from their seats at the dais, with the candidate at a table in front of them, facing the Board. Anyone from the public present at the interviews will be seated in rows behind the candidate.

Reference check calls - Vice Chair Holmes and Director Brooks will conduct these using a set of predetermined questions. They will provide a verbal report at the deliberations after Round 2 interviews have concluded.

Contract - The last contract was vetted by three agencies. The Board will need to talk through financial, benefits, incentive pay (or not). They will review the last contract, versus the new MSBA model contract, and work to create a draft for the new superintendent contract on April 2, 2024 at the Work Session.

Interview questions were reviewed to determine which questions would be kept for Round 1, saved for Round 2 or discarded altogether.

Candidate names were revealed:

e Dr. Patrick Duffy, Director of Teaching, Learning, and Leadership, St. Louis Park Public Schools, MN
Dr. Elizabeth Keenan, former Superintendent, Special School District of St. Louis County, MO
Dr. Timothy McCray, Deputy Superintendent, Madison Metropolitan School District, WI
Dr. George Nolan, Elementary Principal, Hopkins Public Schools, MN
Bondo Nyembwe, Executive Director of Educational Services, Columbia Heights Public Schools, MN
Dr. Noel Schmidt, Superintendent, Rock Ridge Public Schools, MN

1

The semi-finalists were selected from a pool of 14 applicants based on criteria established by the school board, as well as survey input provided by Rdale stakeholders.

The Board reviewed the interview training with the MSBA Superintendent Search Team.

Other
No items presented.

Work Session adjourned at 12:55 a.m. Tuesday, March 19, 2024.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board