ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed May 6, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, April 15, 2024 at 9:05 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:

rd under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) for FY25

Alissa Pier, Interim Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation

Michael Hart, PMS Securities, LLC

Ms. Pier presented the projects scheduled to be completed in FY25, Mr. Hart reviewed the allowable funding uses, requirements, options, and strategies for the proposed projects. Both responded to questions afterward.

Board Topics

e Superintendent Search Discussion
Barb Dorn, Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) Superintendent Search Team
Ms. Dorn outlined next steps, after suspending the search. After discussion, the Board opted to update the posting for the position to include "Superintendent Experience Required," and leave the posting open until filled. If the position remains vacant after June 30, 2024, the Board will look to hire an interim superintendent specifically with capital levy experience.

e School Board Budget
The Board was presented with a copy of their most current budget to actual report, with a request from Chair Bowman to review and provide feedback for further discussion at a later date.

Other
No items presented.

Work Session adjourned at 11:14 p.m.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board