ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS - INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 281
FINANCIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL (FAC)
MINUTES FOR OCTOBER 8, 2025. 6:30-8:30PM
ESC BOARDROOM
DRAFT
FAC Members
Greg Kugler, Chair Edwin Ochoa
X X
April Gulley Nicole Sandback
Katherine Lankford Sarah Taylor,
X
Secretary
School Board Members
X X
Aviva Hillenbrand, Helen Bassett
Treasurer
X
ReNae Bowman
Bargaining Group
Participants
X Aunnie Kramber, X Nicole Lee, ASFCME
Robbinsdale Equity Al
David Lloyd
District 281 Staff
Kristen Hoheisel, Cassandra Jaramillo,
Chief Financial Business Services
X X
Officer Office Manager
Virginia Verbrugge, Dr. Teri Staloch,
X
Assistant Director of Superintendent
X
Finance
Kristen Hoheisel called the meeting to order at 6:30pm
Agenda Item 1: Discussion of Committee Purpose
FAC was extended to the bargaining groups to enable different lenses to be included as they hear things from different perspectives. Idea is to have 4 meetings, 2 in Oct and 2 in
Nov. We will move as slow or fast as this group needs to deep-dive to then share with the board what we believe to be true.
Description: The purpose of the committee is to:
1. Provide greater credibility among the community by including not only elected officials, but also community members;

2. Examine and decide on the assumptions used in enrollment projections, projected revenues and expenditures with a goal of increasing the accuracy of budget projection and actual results;
3. Expand and propose a more detailed financial vision for board consideration and adoption;
4. Improve understanding and acceptance by the public of a forecast range in place of definite set figure; and
5. Develop a more approximate budget forecast range while noting and identifying the key assumptions utilized for the 2026-2027 budget and beyond.
Partial student hours in the district are an additional ratio (homeschool with specials in the district or PSEO). New formula instituted 10+ years ago so excess money that is voter approved for those that we educate. Taxes are spread across district boundaries, but it's based on who you educate not where the kids live.
Agenda Item 2: Overview of School Finance
2.A. Budget Timelines
2.B. School Finance Terminology
2.C. Special Education Funding
2.D. 2025 Legislative Session
Agenda Item 3: 2026-2027 Budget Forecast Assumptions - Revenue
3A. Enrollment is the most critical of all revenue forecasts. The group reviewed the demographer's enrollment projection. We must hold students on our enrollment list for 15
days unless the family has contacted the school to unenroll. This is why we see the numbers drop significantly from Sept 1 to Oct 1. The chart shows a monthly loss of 361
students. The initial budget was built with 10K students for 2025, we are currently at 9,917.
Our focus is not on early childhood but just K-12.
Net Migration Assumptions help to understand what a student typically does between th grades, stay or leave. ALC is inflating the numbers because it includes 5 year seniors.
• Helen Bassett asked if we think about how programs affect enrollment, she referenced SEA as an example.
• Aunnie asked if we could see early childhood numbers as it could help us understand what incoming numbers might be. Aviva said retention rates were not supportive of that thought as of 5 years ago, and Helen confirmed it has not been consistent. Kristen Hoheisel will get numbers to share next time.

• Edwin asked about the impacts of summer birthdays, that could shift the timing of start date but not overall numbers.
• Discussion on putting more into early learning (ECFE) years with a potential to put pre-k in the elementary school, so they are likely to stay in the district.
• Overall, the group has stated their desire to be conservative on the revenue estimate but careful not to be so conservative that we cut vital programs and basic security needs. The goal is to build up a reserve.
• We can choose to do a low kinder and high migration, high kinder and low migration and the choices in between. Attendees need to have an opinion for the next time we meet.
Agenda Item 4: Other nd
The next meeting will be Oct 22 - team has been asked to review the demographer's enrollment info and be ready to share thoughts when we regroup. We will also move onto other Revenue buckets, so it will be helpful to review the entire binder.
Agenda Item 5: Adjourn
Kristen Hoheisel called the meeting at 8:16pm