ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed December 2, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, November 18, 2024 at 9:22
p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
httos://www,rdale,ora/discover/schoo|-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

Minnesota School Boards Association (MSBA) Executive Search Services: Transition Workshop

Barb Dorn, MSBA Director of Leadership Development and Executive Search

Ms. Dorn was present to guide the Board and Superintendent Staloch through the Transition Workshop, where the superintendent's evaluation process is usually determined collaboratively. Since Superintendent Staloch had done such a thorough job in preparing for the September 16 Work Session initial discussion with the Board, they were able to fine tune things in regard to the metrics and timeline. The date of the mid-year was changed to January 21, 2025, requiring a vote for the date change to be added to the Operations section of the December 2, 2024 Business Meeting. Also that evening, the timeline for the evaluation process will be on the Consent Agenda for approval by the Board.

200 Series of Policies Review

Anne Becker from Becker Law

Ms. Becker was present to go through the first read of the following policies with the Board:

e@ 203 Policy - Governance

@ 203.1 Policy - Conducting Board Business and Meetings

e 209 Policy - Code of Ethics

Board members will review these policies between now and the December 2, 2024 Business Meeting, where they will be brought forth under Operations for the second read - after which, they would be brought to the December 16, 2024
meeting for approval.

School Board Handbook - Final Draft

ReNae Bowman, School Board Chair

Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, School Board Clerk

Due to the late hour, the School Board Handbook discussion was tabled.

Work Session concluded at 12:04 a.m. on Tuesday, November 19, 2024
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board