Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved November 18, 2024

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, November 4, 2024, beginning at 6:02 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the

meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call
Chair Bowman called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.

Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent.
Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Approval of the Agenda
Chair Bowman asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda.

Director Brooks made a subsidiary motion to amend the agenda to confirm dates certain to discuss the investigation agreed to do on September 4, 2024, Director Vento called point of order, citing the need to move approval of the

agenda first.

Director Evans-Becker moved to accept the agenda, and Director Vento seconded the motion.

Director Brooks restated the subsidiary motion to amend the agenda to confirm dates certain to discuss the investigation agreed to on September 4, 2024, Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett and Brooks. And the following voted against the same:
Directors: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. Said motion did not prevail.

Director Vento moved to amend the agenda to bring back the reconsideration of the Financial Advisory Council (FAC)
appointments, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Director Holmes asked Director Vento to consider a friendly amendment to separate the candidates to allow for the discussion of the two indviduals, Director Vento declined. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors: Bassett, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors: Bowman, Holmes, and Long.

Said motion was declared duly passed. The item was added to the agenda as item number 7.

In regard to the amended agenda - upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said

motion was declared duly passed.

World's Best Workforce (WBWF) Annual Report and Public Forum

John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services

Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs

Dr. Cheryl Ulik, Director of Research, Evaluation and Assessment

Mr. Groenke, Mr. Pletcher and Dr. Ulik presented the WBWF Annual Report for SY24. WBWF legislation requires districts to submit a summary of the annual report to the Minnesota Department of Education (MDE) annually.

The summary is brief, and the MDE reviews and provides feedback to districts, which can inform continuous improvement efforts at the local level. This report was meant to help understand the definition of the WBWF, and the upcoming changes in legislation for 2024-2025 and beyond. It also outlined the district's progress toward WBWF
goals as of 2023-2024 - and the instructional strategies used to meet those goals.

Public comment was offered after the presentation, there were no community members who came up to speak, but the presenters took questions from the Board.

Rdale Proud - Showcase: Early Learning Programs and Family Night
Emilie Levinson, Director of Early Learning Programs

Sara Tinklenberg, Early Learning Supervisor

Jessica Rich - Parent and Family Educator

Liz Oestyerreich, Speech/Language Pathologist

Laura Stigen with her son, Quincy

The group shared information regarding all Rdale Early Learning programs available. They also spoke about the Early
Learning Family Night event they held on Monday, October 14, 2024 at the New Hope Learning Center. There will be two other Family Nights this year on February 11, 2025 focused on literacy, and April 16, 2025 focused on math. The presenters were provided with certificates in recognition of their presentation to the Board.

Superintendent's Report

Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent

Superintendent Staloch reminded everyone of the Rdale mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their

unique potential and positively contribute to their community, then shared some of the highlights since the last

meeting, including:

e October 22, 2024 Chair Bowman, Superintendent Staloch and several others met with the Tribal Nations
Education Committee (TNEC) at Prairie Island in Welch, MN. TNEC was pleased with the progress for American
Indian education at Rdale schools.

e October 30, 2024 Superintendent Staloch attended opening night of Armstrong's "Harry Potter and the Cursed
Child" - the production continues with performances through November 9, 2024

e Also on October 30, the Dakota and Ojibwe Language Tables resumed - a fun way to learn more about the two
Indigenous languages. They are scheduled for once a month through May of 2025.

e November 1, 2024 Superintendent Staloch and David Law, Superintendent of Minnetonka Public Schools, spoke in Rochester, MN regarding budget restraints to a group of Minnesota superintendents

e November 4-5, 2024 will be staff professional development days

e November 11, 2024 is the annual Fall Music Festival at Orchestra Hall with Dr. Dale Kruse, former Cooper Choir
Director, as the guest conductor. The show starts at 7:00 p.m., and tickets are on sale now.

e November 15, 2024 the district will be conducting a test of the communications alert system ahead of the winter weather season to make sure the messaging will reach everyone in the event of a winter weather event. Please contact the district if you do not receive the test message

e Please get out and vote tomorrow!

S & P Underlying Rating for Credit Program - Update Only
Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer
Ms. Hoheisel provided a summary to the Board regarding the S & P Underlying Rating for Credit Program. She began with reminding the Board about the June Long Term Facilities Maintenance (LTFM) discussion regarding approval to have a competitive bond sale for debt. September 16, 2024, Ms. Hoheisel and PMA shifted to a negotiated sale model, since the bond rating was in flux. Based on the S & P Report:
e Rdaled dropped from an A- credit rating to a BBB, due to:

o Rapid financial deterioration and management
Financial management weakened
District's $2.2M deficit, underperformed
New labor contracts with high income increases
Auditor - internal control, failure to comply with deadlines

o Board of Education complaints against each other, and more...
Specific to the negotiated sale, it appears this will help to keep the interest rate increases from going too high. Ms.
Hoheisel noted the that Moody's rating decreased as well, by one.
Tonight's presentation was for information only. Ms. Hoheisel will be bringing the approval of the negotiated bonds sale for approval on November 18, 2024 at the Business Meeting - along with a Budget update.

ooo0o°0o

Action - Approval of FAC Appointments

Director Vento moved to appoint Ukee Dozier and Sarah Taylor to the FAC, Director Brooks seconded the motion.
Directors each were provided time to speak regarding their position on the appointees, how the rating process worked, and their initial position on the appointments - followed by a roll call vote. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors: Bassett, Brooks, Evans-Becker, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Directors: Bowman, Holmes, and Long. Said motion was declared duly passed. Mr. Dozier and Ms. Taylor will be welcomed to the FAC at the meeting on Tuesday, November 19, 2024 at 6:30 p.m.

Operations

A. Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Report
The next meeting will be held on November 6, 2024 at 4:30 p.m. and will include review of A Guide to Student
Support and Behavior (student handbook), and feedback regarding the safety presentation from the October 21,
2024 Business Meeting.

B. Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee Report
The next meeting is scheduled for November 14, 2024 at 5:30 p.m.

C. Governance Policy and Procedure Manual Report

Chair Bowman reported that the School Board Handbook would be discussed by the Board at the Work Session tonight, scrolling through the latest draft to show the updates that have been made. The goal is to have this completed when it's time to onboard newly-elected directors this fall.

D. Policy Committee Report
The last of the legislative and annual review policies are in the Consent Agenda for approval tonight. The first batch of 200 series policies will be coming to the Work Session on November 18, 2024. The next Policy
Committee meeting is scheduled for November 6, 2024 at 6:00 p.m.

E. Administrative Reports - Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent
There were no administrative reports this evening.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items are considered routine in nature and are enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Board member so requests, in which the item will be removed as a Consent
Agenda item, and addressed. Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor of the amended consent agenda thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjourn the Meeting

MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bassett seconded the motion.

Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
7:45 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

swnet AML rad: Ligtle Date: // léle y chool Board Clerk, Independent School District 281