Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Approved March 20, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, March 6, 2023, beginning at 5:31 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.ora/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon Brooks Green, Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and David Engstrom,
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum; and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Holmes made a motion to add a vote to the agenda in regard to immediately freezing all non-emergent human resources hires, layoffs, promotions and terminations until the Board has an opportunity to collectively provide instruction to the
Superintendent on only doing non-staff budget reductions, Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Holmes and Long. And the following voted against the same: Directors Evans-Becker and Vento. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Chair Evans-Becker proposed adding the discussion as item 6. Operations, before Announcements.

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the amended Business Meeting agenda. MOTION: Director
Bowman moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Holmes and Long. And the following voted against the same: Directors Evans-Becker and Vento. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Closed Session

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to recess to a closed session pursuant to MN Statutes 13D.05 subdivisions
2(a)(3) and subdivision 3(d) to receive security briefings, and discuss all facilities' security systems and emergency response procedures. MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared

duly passed.

Special Report: Achievement and Integration 3-Year Plan

Presented by Beth Tepper, Director of Achievement and Integration and Tony Patterson, Assistant Director of
Achievement and Integration

Ms. Tepper and Mr. Patterson presented the Achievement and Integration 3-Year plan after the Board returned from closed session at 7:43 p.m. The plan follows MDE Achievement and Integration for MN program, based on MN
Statute sections 124D.861 and 124D.862.

Consent Agenda
Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters. MOTION: Director Vento

moved approval, and Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Operations

Action: Propose approval to immediately freeze all non-emergent human resources hires, layoffs, promotions, and terminations until the Board has an opportunity to collectively provide instruction to the Superintendent on doing only non-staff budget reductions - presented by Director Holmes MOTION: Director Holmes moved approval, and Director
Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bowman, Holmes and Long. And the following voted against the same: Directors Bassett, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker and Vento. Said motion did not pass.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Brooks Green seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks Green,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned at
9:10 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

gy
Signed: FL olin d- pate arch 20 | 2025

School Board Clerk, {ndependent School District 281