ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Organizational/Business Meeting

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved January 20, 2026

An Organizational/ Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday,
January 5, 2026, beginning at 7:05 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center
(ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/ -board under "Watch School
Board Meeting Webcasts."

Welcome/Land Acknowledgement

Call to Order/Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: None. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the agenda, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 6-0 voice vote.

Ceremonial Oath of Office for Newly-Appointed School Board Director
Acting Chair Evans-Becker presented newly-appointed Board Director DJ Brynteson, and had him recite the oath of office.

Election of Officers for 2026
e Elect Chair
Acting Chair Evans-Becker called for nominations for the office of School Board Chair.
Bowman nominated Evans-Becker.
Bassett nominated Brynteson (declined).
Acting Chair Evans-Becker called for nominations two more times.
Voting in favor of Evans-Becker: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: None
Abstaining: Bassett, Long
Evans-Becker was declared the Chair for 2026 by 5-0-2 roll call vote.
e Elect Vice-Chair
Newly-elected Chair Evans-Becker called for nominations for the office of School Board Vice Chair.
Bowman nominated Wutoh.
Chair Evans-Becker called for nominations two more times.
Wutoh was declared the Vice Chair for 2026 with a 7-0 roll call vote.
e Elect Clerk
Chair Evans-Becker called for nominations for nominations for the office of School Board Clerk.
Bowman nominated herself.
Chair Evans-Becker called for nominations two more times.
Voting in favor of: Bowman: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Bowman was declared the Clerk for 2026 with a 6-1 roll call vote.
e Elect Treasurer
Chair Evans-Becker called for nominations for nominations for the office of School Board Treasurer.
Bowman nominated Hillenbrand.
Chair Evans-Becker called for nominations two more times.
Hillenbrand was declared the Treasurer for 2026 with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Other Business

e Delegation of Deputy Treasurer
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of delegating Kristen Hoheisel, Chief Financial Officer for the duties and position of Deputy Treasurer, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

e Appointment of Assistant Clerk
MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of appointment of Molly Olson as Assistant Clerk to the School Board, Bassett seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Yearly Board Compensation for 2026

MOTION: Bassett moved approval of keeping compensation the same, Hillenbrand seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Resolution Authorizing the use of Facsimile Signatures and Surety Bond

MOTION: Bassett moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, Brynteson seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Resolution Designating Brokers for Investment of School District Funds

MOTION: Bowman moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, Hillenbrand seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Resolution Designating Depositories for School District Funds

MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, Bassett seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Resolution Authorizing Specific Statements in Advance

MOTION: Bassett read list of payees in advance and moved approval of the resolution, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Appoint Legal Counsel

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of legal firms to appoint and authorized district staff to contact counsel,
Wutoh seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

Appoint Financial Advisor

MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of PMA Financial Network for district financial advisor, Hlllenbrand seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Designation of Identified Official with Authority (IOwA) for the MN Dept. of Education (MDE) External User Access
Recertification System

MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent as the district |OwA and Dr. Bob
McDowell, Assistant Superintendent as IOWA Proxy, Bassett seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Designation of Official Newspaper

MOTION: Brynteson moved approval designating ECM Publishers, Inc. (Sun Post and Sun Sailor weekly newspapers, www.hometownsource.com), Bowman seconded.

Voting in favor: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, Wutoh

Abstaining from vote: Bassett

Motion prevailed with a 6-0-1 roll call vote.

Designation of Official Television Producer

MOTION: Bassett moved approval of Northwest Community Television - CCX Media, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Review of 209 Policy - Code of Ethics, Statement of Compliance

During this meeting, a review of 209 RAS Policy - Code of Ethics and signing of the corresponding Statement of
Compliance was implemented as an annual item, per the language in the policy adopted on December 16, 2024
stating:

"All Robbinsdale School Board members must sign, annually, a statement certifying that they have read, understand, and agree to abide by the Code of Ethics, and affirm their commitment to hold themselves and other Board members accountable for any violation(s) of it."

The following directors signed the Statement of Compliance: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker,
Hillenbrand, Wutoh.

Review of 210 Policy - Conflict of Interest School Board Members

Chair Evans-Becker requested board members to declare any conflict of interest, per 210 Policy.
Brynteson declared himself as head coach of district debate and golf teams, his wife as a district substitute teacher, and his daughter an assistant district debate coach.

Hillenbrand declared a family members being employed by the district's Adventure Club program. No other
Board members declared conflicts of interest.

Wutoh declared his wife as a district teacher.

Rdale Proud: FAIR School Pilgrim Lane Elementary (FAIR PLE) - Arts Integration

Jennifer Smith, principal of FAIR PLE and Trudy Monette from Stages Theatre Company highlighted arts integration and Night of the Arts at FAIR PLE, followed by student speakers and a Page to Stage lesson performance by students.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Wutoh seconded.

Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business

A.

Property and Liability Insurance Broker

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of USI Insurance Services, LLC, Long seconded.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Abstaining from vote: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-0-1 roll call vote.

The Board recessed briefly at 8:50 p.m., then reconvened at 8:58 p.m.

B.

Continued Statutory Operating Debt (SOD) Planning/Site Consolidation

Dr. Staloch, Dr. McDowell, and Ms. Hoheisel provided a report to:

1. Clarify the SOD facts and misconceptions

2. Revisit district financial needs

3. Review process leading up to tonight's meeting

4. Review FAIR School Crystal (FAIR C) reality and opportunity

MOTION: Bassett moved to not close FAIR School Pilgrim Lane Elementary, Bowman seconded.

Motion prevails with a 7-0 roll call vote. FAIR PLE will remain open.

MOTION: Chair Evans-Becker moved to discontinue middle school magnet programming at FAIR School Crystal and repurpose it with academic programming, Wutoh seconded.

Voting in favor: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Bassett, Long

Abstaining from vote: Brynteson

Motion prevailed with a 4-2-1 roll call vote. Middle school magnet programming will be discontinued at FAIR C at the conclusion of the 2025-26 school year, and the building will be repurposed with academic programming.
MOTION: Brynteson moved relocation of Robbinsdale Academy-Highview (RA-HV), Robbinsdale Virtual
Academy (RVA) and some Education Service Center (ESC) departments to the FAIR School Crystal building,
Bowman seconded.

Voting in favor: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Bassett, Long

Motion prevailed with a 5-2 roll call vote.

The Board recessed briefly at 9:55 p.m., then reconvened at 10:11 p.m.

New Business
A. Proposed Change to 2025-26 School Board Meeting Calendar for addition of a Special Study Session on January

12, 2026

MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the added session, Hillenbrand seconded.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 voice vote.

Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $5,679.07

MOTION: Bassett moved approval of the resolution, Wutoh seconded.

Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Level III Custodial Grievances

MOTION: Hillenbrand moved referral of BSC grievance to arbitration, Brynteson seconded.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 voice vote.

MOTION: Wutoh moved referral of CE grievance to arbitration, Brynteson seconded.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long

Motion prevailed with a 6-1 voice vote.

Policy (None this evening.)

Administrative Reports (None this evening.)

Board Committee Reports and Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Bowman facilitated the Listening Time held at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Education Service Center. 38 individuals submitted requests to speak, however only 17 spoke due to time constraints. The following were the topics from the 17 speakers:

e Against closure of FAIR Crystal

e Arts magnet program closure, impact to theater programming across middle school in general, and transportation good faith discussions

Reminder we are a community

FAIR Crystal building use

The value of maintaining standalone magnet schools

FAIR PL/FAIR Crystal options

The impact of sunsetting FAIR MS programming and the procedural concerns of voting on programming prior to the statutory building closure hearing

e Opposition to closing of FAIR PL and FAIR Crystal magnet MS

All of the speaker submission forms were provided to the Board for review.

eeeee

Public Hearing
The public hearing was canceled due to the earlier vote to keep FAIR PLE open.

Adjournment
MOTION: Wutoh moved to adjourn the meeting, Hillenbrand seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 10:25 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive istant to the erintendent and School Board

Date: \[zo/20z4

ReNae J. fan, School Board Clerk, ISD 281