ROBBINSDALE AREA SCHOOLS - INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 281
FINANCIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL (FAC)
MINUTES FOR November 5, 2025. 6:30-8:30PM
ESC BOARDROOM
DRAFT
FAC Members
Greg Kugler, Chair Edwin Ochoa
X
April Gulley Sarah Taylor,
X
Secretary
School Board Members
Aviva Hillenbrand, Helen Bassett
Treasurer
ReNae Bowman
Bargaining Group
Participants
Aunnie Kramber, X Nicole Lee, ASFCME
Robbinsdale Equity Al
David Lloyd, Program
Assistants
District 281 Staff
Kristen Hoheisel, Cassandra Jaramillo,
Chief Financial Business Services
X X
Officer Office Manager
Virginia Verbrugge, Dr. Teri Staloch,
Assistant Director of Superintendent
X
Finance
Kristen Hoheisel called the meeting to order at 6:30pm
Agenda Item 1: 2026-2027 Budget Forecast Assumptions - Revenue
G. Special Education a. The group reached consensus to include $36M (~10% increase of 2025 line 1)
despite numbers indicating this amount could be much higher. There are pressures that give us comfort while remaining conservative.
b. Notes:
i. SPED - is anything that requires IEP requiring the student to be pulled from a general ed classroom.

ii. Looking at the financials, 2025 expense becomes a 2026 revenue
(delayed formula can run 2 years behind). SPED expenses jumped considerably ~$9M - this was not planned for or anticipated. Our transportation for SPED was a change of $550K. The sizeable increase in contracted services was not budgeted for and is the main reason for the large increase.
iii. Contracted services include things such as contracting remote SPED
talent which was used in 2024-2025.
iv. Feds and State said they will contribute but will still dictate the amount contributed. Use to pay for the cost of a SPED transportation van but are reverting from that 100% coverage to a lesser percentage.
v. ~$2.8M from Fed this past year but only allows you to claim certain things. The state is left with the difference which is the 'cross subsidy'.
vi. Centennial School district case - after school extended or outside classes can be included in SPED expenditures if those opportunities are required as part of the IEP. It wasn't clear if that happens in 281.
vii. "Maintenance of Effort" - ex spend $10 in state SPED. You must spend at least that in the future. This ensures we aren't cutting services to kids.
The only way to cut dollars is:
➢ Expensive talent retires
➢ SPED kids leave the district
➢ Number needing services changes
Agenda Item 1: 2026-2027 Budget Forecast Assumptions - Expenditure a. Unsettled contracts (school board decision)
a. No action - budget is set at 0$
b. Notes: Unsettled Contracts. Not the committee's job; it's the board's work to determine what will be decided on. Also, it is not our job to create the percentage that goes into the budget contract negotiations as it hamstrings the negotiation process; that is why we budget at 0%.
b. Staffing Ratios (school board decision)
a. No action b. Notes: Staffing ratios are not part of our work; FAC doesn't have insight into the buildings that will be closed or what programs will exist.
c. MN Paid Leave Act a. The group reached consensus to increase the percentage to .5%/.5% for future years b. Notes:

i. January 2026 MN law will pay for up to 20 weeks/year to support wage loss due to illness or bonding time (like another unemployment) -
payout amounts will vary by person, not 100% wage replacement ii. Paid by EE/ER: .44%/.44%
iii. .88% is already assumed to be too low to fund this new account so we discussed when and how much the payroll percentage will be increased to avoid being underfunded iv. ~$530K estimated for 2026, we do think this will increase in 2027
d. Regular Transportation a. The group reached consensus that the 2027-28 increase should be 5%
b. Notes:
i. 3.5% increase was negotiated as part of last year's 2-year budget negotiation (2025-26: 13.58%, 2026-27: 3.5%)
ii. Estimating further out included probably of increases in wages, insurance, fuel, & taxes with a suggested range of 5-7%
iii. The group discussed the option of bringing bussing back in-house, but the upfront cost of doing so is not feasible given the SOD position we are in.
iv. One item we did not discuss specifically was summer unemployment benefits and that MN is underfunded which could result in expense increases, unclear if MN will continue to support hourly school employees e. Supplies and materials a. Consensus reached to leave budget parameter as is b. Notes:
i. This does not include instructional materials but does include art supplies ii. Schools get an allocation of $XX per kid so it's based on pupil count iii. Allocation was reduced in 2023-24 school year by roughly 10%, not anticipating another reduction f. Random Expense Items a. The group reached consensus to increase all lines by 5% compared to the current year's budgeted amounts b. Notes:
i. Goal is to determine what we feel the increase in rates will be, not the dollar value of the final expense ii. Inflation is 2.9%; property insurance will likely be much higher than inflation, but if we stay with 5% across the board, it will even out.

➢ Communications: includes mobile hotspots
➢ Postage: district plans to communicate by mail
➢ Utilities: focus was on how much we think utility rates will increase, not taking building closures into account as we understand we could see decreases in total dollars billed districtwide while acknowledging offline buildings still create expense
➢ Electricity: focus was on how much we think rates will increase, not taking building closures into account as we understand we could see decreases in total dollars billed district-wide while acknowledging offline buildings still create expense
➢ Water/Sewer: focus was on how much we think rates will increase, not taking building closures into account as we understand we could see decreases in total dollars billed districtwide while acknowledging offline buildings still create expense
➢ Heating: focus was on how much we think rates will increase, not taking building closures into account as we understand we could see decreases in total dollars billed district-wide while acknowledging offline buildings still create expense
➢ Fuel/Gasoline
➢ Property/Liability Insurance
➢ Workers' Compensation Insurance
➢ Other: none discussed
Agenda Item 3: Other items do not address in prior meetings a. Post meeting question - given the public lawsuit against the school board, where is something like that budgeted? More than likely our insurance covers most expenses, and it would be a component of the premium.
th b. Group concluded all budget topics; the November 19 meeting is cancelled.
Agenda Item 4: Adjourn
Kristen Hoheisel called the meeting at 7:55 p.m.