DocuSign Envelope ID: F9A45E38-888F-42AF-9A31-5C3A0E013EE8
Minutes of Business Meeting
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools
**Approved August 21, 2023
A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, August 7, 2023, beginning at 6:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."
Call to Order and Roll Call
Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento. Director(s) absent: none.
Superintendent Engstrom is out on medical leave. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.
Acceptance of the Agenda
Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Vento moved to accept the agenda, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Special Report
Chair Evans-Becker reported on the status of Superintendent Engstrom's SY 2022-2023 end of year evaluation, which was based on the Minnesota School Board Association (MSBA) evaluation tool - with 15 priority elements agreed upon by Superintendent Engstrom and the School Board last fall. Superintendent Engstrom presented to the
School Board on June 26, 2023 in a closed session, after which he left the room. The directors discussed his strengths/challenges and data/scores. A written summary from the School Board was emailed to Superintendent
Engstrom on July 24, 2023 - with intent to meet with him upon return from his medical leave.
Operations
A. Action: Resolution Accepting June 2023 Donations
MOTION: Director Vento moved to accept the $26,124.43 in donations to the district, and Director Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed.
B. Non-Action: Resolution for Approval of the FY22 Final Audit Report
Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance and Bill Lauer, MMKR and Co., P.A.
Ms. Verbrugge and Mr. Lauer provided a final review of the FY22 audit, and recommended moving to action for approval at the August 21, 2023 Business Meeting.
C. Non-Action: 403(b) Plan Document
Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance
Ms. Verbrugge provided the draft of the 403(b) plan document, and recommended moving to action for approval at the August 21, 2023 Business Meeting.
D. Non-Action: Policy 206: Public Participation in School Board Meetings, Complaints about Persons at School
Board Meetings, and Data Privacy Considerations
MOTION: Director Vento moved to waive the first reading, and immediately vote for approval, and Director
Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
E. Non-Action: Resolution for Approval of Bus Donations for Emergency Training Operations
Alissa Pier, Interim Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation
Ms. Pier was available for questions regarding the donation of five non-operational buses to other organizations for use in emergency training operations.
MOTION: Director Vento moved to waive the first reading, and immediately vote for approval, and Director
Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
F. Non-Action: Resolution to Establish School Board Ad Hoc Committee for Transportation Priorities

DocuSign Envelope ID: F9A45E38-888F-42AF-9A31-5C3A0E013EE8
It was recommended that the first paragraph of the resolution be amended to read "priorities on transportation and capital infrastructure." Directors Bassett, Evans-Becker and Vento will be the members of this committee.
MOTION: Director Bassett moved to accept on the first reading as amended, and immediately vote for approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
G. Non-Action: Policy Revisions due to 2023 Legislative Changes
22 policy drafts were updated to reflect the required changes resulting from the 2023 legislative session.
MOTION: Director Bowman moved to waive the first reading of all 22 policies, and immediately vote for approval, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
H. Non-Action: Human Resources Staffing Update
Amy O'Hern provided the "Human Resources Staffing Update," and was available for questions and discussion.
Consent Agenda
Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes,and Long. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
Announcements (can be found on our website)
Adjournment
MOTION: Director Vento moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes, Long, and
Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board
8/22/2023
Signed: Date:
School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281