Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Approved December 18, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, December 4, 2023, beginning at 7:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording of the meeting can be found at: httos://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting
Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Bassett called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E.
Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim
Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Bassett asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Bowman moved to amend the
December 18, 2023 Listening Time agenda to extend the Truth-in-Taxation Public Hearing if need be for those who may have missed December 4, 2023, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento.

Chair Bassett asked for a motion to accept the amended Business Meeting agenda. Director Evans-Becker moved to accept the amended agenda,and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Interim Superintendent's Report

Interim Superintendent Voight introduced Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance, to provide a brief update on the status of the FY23 audit. The auditors are estimating the audit report will be final by February 2024, due to
Finance department staff transitions, and work not being ready when auditors were scheduled to perform the audit

work.

Operations

A. Action: Superintendent Search Firm Selection
MOTION: Director Bowman moved approval, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Changes to the 2023-2024 School Board Meeting Calendar
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of postponing the Closed Session for Interim Superintendent's
Mid-Year Review from Monday, December 18, 2023 to Monday, February 5, 2023, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Director Holmes moved to amend the motion to include adding a Board discussion and review of the Interim Superintendent's proposed evaluation tool to the January 8, 2024 Work Session, and
Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof:
Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
MOTION: Director Vento moved to amend the motion to change the December 18, 2023 closed session from
Interim Superintendent's Mid-Year Evaluation to Labor Negotiations Strategy to include the addition of extending the Truth-in-Taxation Public Hearing from December 4, 2023 if necessary at 6:00 p.m. on
December 18, 2023 - noting that if not necessary, Listening Timewould occur as scheduled, and Director
Bassett seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
MOTION: Director Bassett moved approval of the original motion to move the Closed Session for Interim
Superintendent's Mid-Year Review from Monday, December 18, 2023 to Monday, February 5, 2023, and
Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof:
Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Action: School Board Mediation
MOTION: Director Bassett moved to amend the recommended motion to include entering mediation as of
December 18, 2023 with Mediation Center of Minnesota, and Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.
MOTION: Director Holmes moved to amend the amended motion to include firms researched by Director
Bowman (Tobin Lay - Professor at Hamline University, Mediation Center of Minnesota, Sure Horizons
Mediation), Director Bowman seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: Director Brooks. Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Non-Action: Resolution Designating Polling Locations for ISD No. 281 for 2024 Elections
Karylanne Marchand, District Business Office Manager
Ms. Marchand reviewed the proposed polling locations, answered questions and recommended bringing to action at the next Business Meeting on December 18, 2023.

E. Non-Action: School Safety Update

Ad Hoc Safety and Security Committee Meeting will be held on December 6, 2023 at 5:00 p.m. at the ESC.

Non-Action: Student Achievement Update - No report this evening.

Non-Action: Policy Update

Governance Policy Committee Members

e Working on policy 506 - Student Discipline, waiting for administrative procedure updates from district -
should have ready for Board review at Business meeting on January 8, 2024 at the ESC

e Working on policy 413 - Harassment and Violence - will bring to next Business Meeting on December 18,
2023

e Governance Policy Committee will meet on December 12, 2023 at 6:00 p.m. at the ESC

H. Non-Action: Transportation Update
Ad Hoc Transportation and Capital Infrastructure Committee will meet soon.

|. Non-Action: Human Resources Staffing Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Ms. O'Hern provided information in regard to Earned Sick and Safe Time (ESST) law which will go into effect
January 1, 2024 for Minnesota (MN) temporary and part-time employees who work at least 80 hours in a year for an employer in MN. For the district, it will include casual and substitute employees.

@m

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Vento moved approval of the Consent Agenda, and Director Bowman seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks,
Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports
Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and

community events.

Announcements (posted announcements can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Bassett moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker,
Holmes, Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

Signed: Date: f 12/18/2025
Sharon E. Brooks, School Board Clerk, ISD 281 .