Summary Minutes of Study Session

ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Reviewed: November 3, 2025

A Study Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, October 20, 2025 at
6:20 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Study (Work) Session summary minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch, Superintendent.
Director(s) absent: none.

Welcome and Introductions
The School Board, Superintendent, and Cabinet introduced themselves.

Purpose and Agenda
Review of the Board of Education 2025-26 Agenda and Working Document, highlighting the sections to be covered this evening.

District Governance and Policy

e School Board Vacancy Discussion
Board reviewed the process for filling the Board Director vacancy as outlined in 215 Policy - School Board - Vacancies and Procedures for Filling of Vacancies, timeline, media release, previous application and scoresheet - with a goal of having the newly appointed director take the oath of office on Monday, January 5, 2026 at the Organizational Meeting.

Operational Performance Oversight and Organizational Direction

e Application for Cooperative Sponsorship for Armstrong/Cooper Boys Lacrosse
Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics, and Activities presented the application, with the intent of it moving to action at the Business Meeting on November 3, 2025.

e Vision 2030/Statutory Operating Debt (SOD) Plan Work: Presentation of Phase | Options and SOD Items
Dr. Teri Staloch - Superintendent, Dr. Bob McDowell - Assistant Superintendent, and Kristen Hoheisel - Chief
Financial Officer reviewed the Board approved strategic plan priorities for 2025-26 and the MN Dept. of Education
(MDE) Equity Magnifier as guiding documents for the Vision 2030/SOD work. Responses to the Board questions from the October 13, 2025 Special Study Session were reviewed. Phase | proposed options were presented, followed by robust discussion, questions and feedback from the Board. The phase | proposed options will be finalized for presentation to the Board at the November 3, 2025 Business Meeting

Board Governance

Chair Evans-Becker and Clerk Bowman requested final feedback on the School Board Governance Procedure and
Handbook from the other directors in preparation for bringing to action at the Business Meeting on November 3, 2025.
Superintendent Relations (None)

Community Engagement (None)

Information Items (None)

Future Agenda Topics (None)

Study Session concluded at 9:25 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board