ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Business Meeting

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

*"Approved September 3, 2025

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, August 18, 2025, beginning at 6:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Holmes, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda
MOTION: Holmes moved approval of the agenda, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Inaugural Land Acknowledgement and Tribal Flags Display

The Board welcomed members of the district American Indian Parent Advisory Council (AIPAC), their families and the
Rdale community to witness the inaugural reading of the district Land Acknowledgement by the Board, and to see the newly placed tribal flag display in the Boardroom. Nation Wright from the Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe performed with a hand drum, singing "Honor Song."

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Wutoh seconded.

Voting for: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting no: Holmes, Long

Bassett abstained from voting.

Motion prevailed with a 4-2-1 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business (None)

New Business

A. Preparing for the Launch of the 2025-26 Academic Year - Dr. Bob McDowell, Assistant Superintendent
Presentation regarding all preparations in progress for the start of the school year.

B. Nutrition Services Request for Proposal (RFP) for 2025-26 Fresh Produce Vendor
MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of Bix Produce Company for the 2025-26 school year, Holmes seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

C. Resolution for Acceptance of Donations in the amount of $1,367.00
MOTION: Bowman moved approval of the Resolution for Acceptance of Donations, Hillenbrand seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Policy

Second Read (Action) - Policies

MOTION: Holmes moved to pull 102 Policy - Equity for discussion at a Study Session, Bassett seconded.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Holmes, Long

Voting against: Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Bowman abstained from voting.

Motion failed with a 3-3-1 roll call vote.

MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of 102.1 Policy - Equity, Bowman seconded.

Voting for: Bowman, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Bassett, Holmes, Long

Motion prevailed with a 4-3 roll call vote.

MOTION: Hillenbrand moved approval of 534 Policy - School Meals, Wutoh seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Administrative Reports

A. Superintendent's Report

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. She provided an update on activities, which included a presentation highlighting:

e Great Rdale Get Together on August 9, 2025

e System Leaders Advance meeting on August 12, 2025

e August 25, 2025 - All District Staff Kick-off

Redesign Update

Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics, and Activities provided an update on the status of the Redesign Program.

Future Events (can be found on our website)

Adjournment
MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, and Wutoh seconded the motion.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 7:22 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Syperintendent and School Board ignedé Date: Aye os 2015
ReNae J. Bowman, School Board Clerk, ISD 281