ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Work Session
The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Reviewed June 4, 2024

A Work Session of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, May 20, 2024 at 10:28 p.m.
in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education service Center. Complete agendas, reports, and presentations are available at the office and on our website. A recording of the meeting can be found at:
httos:/Avww,rdale,ora/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts." Work session summary

minutes are not approved by the School Board.

Director(s) present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman, Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline
Long, and John Vento; and Marti Voight, Interim Superintendent. Director(s) absent: none.

Introductions
All in attendance introduced themselves.

FY25 Preliminary Budget

Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance

Ms. Verbrugge presented the FY25 Preliminary Budget, and responded to questions afterward. The presentation will move to non-action at the Monday, June 4, 2024 Business Meeting.

School District Fund Balance Discussion
Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance
Ms. Verbrugge was available to answer questions from the Board in regard to the district fund balance.

Board Topics

e Superintendent Contract
ReNae Bowman, School Board Chair
Chair Bowman noted the information was pulled from the April 2, 2024 Work Session, compiled and sent to legal to draft a contract for the Board to review.

e School Board Budget
The Board was presented with detailed reports regarding their expenses for contracted services, memberships and

dues, and professional development for 2022-2023 and 2023-2024 school years for review and discussion.

Other
No items presented.

Work Session adjourned at 42:24 a.m. Tuesday, May 21, 2024.
Prepared and submitted by:
Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
™xecutive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board