ROBBINSDALE

Area Schools Minutes of Business Meeting

The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

**Approved April 6, 2026

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, March 16, 2026, beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center (ESC). A recording

of the meeting can be found at: https://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting

Webcasts."
Welcome and Land Acknowledgement

Call to Order/Roll Call
Directors present: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Long, and Wutoh; and Dr. Teri Staloch,
Superintendent. Absent: none. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Approval of the Agenda
MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of the agenda, Bowman seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

District System of Continuous Improvement

A. Theme C: Collaboration and Paretnership - Charter C2: Expand equitable inclusion and influence of student, family, staff, and community voice
Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics, and Activities
Mr. Williams provided an update of progress to date of Charter C2, and answered questions.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative matters, personnel reports, and financial reports.
MOTION: Brynteson moved approval of the Consent Agenda items, Bassett seconded.

Voting in favor: Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh

Voting against: Bassett, Long

Motion prevailed with a 5-2 roll call vote.

Unfinished Business - None for this evening.

New Business
A. Resolution Accepting Donations in the amount of $4,894.57
MOTION: Bassett moved approval of the donations, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.
B. Resolution - Proposal Terminating Probationary Teachers
MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the resolution, Hillenbrand seconded.
Voting in favor: Bassett, Bowman, Brynteson, Evans-Becker, Hillenbrand, Wutoh
Voting against: Long
Motion prevailed with a 6-1 roll call vote.
C. Primary Election Process
An overview of the primary election process was reviewed and discussed by the Board. After discussion, Board decided not to pursue a primary election.
D. Application for Athletic Cooperative for Armstrong/Cooper/Rivertree Girls Lacrosse
MOTION: Bassett moved approval of the application, Brynteson seconded.
Motion prevailed with a 7-0 roll call vote.

Policy
A. Committee Report - Dr. Kenneth Wutoh, School Board Vice Chair

The Policy Committee's next meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, March 18, 2026 at 5:00 p.m.
B. Second Read (Action) Policies

MOTION: Wutoh moved approval of the second read policies, Hillenbrand seconded

Motion prevailed with a voice vote.

Administrative Reports
A. Superintendent's Report

Superintendent Staloch talked about the district's mission to inspire and educate all learners to develop their

unique potential and positively contribute to their community, and how RAS is committed to ensuring every

student graduates career, articulated trades and college ready. Highlights of the presentation included:

e Armstrong Quiz Bowl Team placed second at the ACRONYM 19 pop culture quiz bowl tournament

e Neill students/staff enjoyed "Math Madness' last week featuring entertaining math activities like estimation, graphing, listening to math stories, and fun dress up days

e March 4, 2026 Armstrong students sampled and evaluated six potential menu items for the Nutrition Services team

e Empty Bowls Event will take place on Thursday, March 26 from 5-7 p.m. at New Hope Church to raise awareness and critical funds to fight hunger in our area

© Transition planning is underway for all buildings and programs impacted by the changes occurring in our district

Future Events
Available on our website.

Adjournment
MOTION: Bowman moved to adjourn the meeting, Wutoh seconded.
Motion prevailed with a voice vote. Meeting was adjourned at 7:03 p.m.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson
Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools
Executive istant to the Sup¢rintendent and School Board

Date: 4- b a

lerk, ISD 281