Minutes of Business Meeting

ROBBINSDALE

BLENS Area Schools The School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools

"Approved September 6, 2023

A Business Meeting of the School Board of Robbinsdale Area Schools (RAS) was held Monday, August 21, 2023, beginning at 7:01 p.m. in the Boardroom at the Robbinsdale Area Schools Education Service Center. A recording of the meeting can be found at: httos://www.rdale.org/discover/school-board under "Watch School Board Meeting Webcasts."

Call to Order and Roll Call

Chair Evans-Becker called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. Directors present: Helen Bassett, ReNae Bowman,
Sharon E. Brooks, Dr. Greta Evans-Becker, Kim Holmes, Caroline Long, and John Vento. Director(s) absent: none.
Superintendent Engstrom is out on medical leave. There was a quorum, and the meeting was called to order.

Acceptance of the Agenda

Chair Evans-Becker asked for a motion to accept the Business Meeting agenda. Director Bowman moved to add an urgent vote to depose the chair, vote for a new chair as agenda item 3, and approve the agenda with this amendment,
Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors
Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes and Long. And the following voted against the same: Directors Evans-Becker and
Vento. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Votes Regarding the School Board Chair

MOTION: Director Bowman moved to depose Chair Evans-Becker, and Director Holmes seconded the motion. Upon

vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes and Long.
And the following voted against the same: Directors Evans-Becker and Vento. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Director Bowman made a motion nominating Director Bassett to return to the role of School Board Chair, and Director
Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes and Long. The following voted against the same: none. And the following abstained from voting: Director Vento. Said motion was declared duly passed. Director Bassett began her Chair duties immediately following the vote.

Operations

A. Action: Resolution for Approval of the FY22 Finalized Audit
MOTION: Director Vento moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed.

B. Action: Resolution for Approval of the 403(b) Plan Revision
MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval and waived reading of the resolution, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed.

C. Action: Resolution Accepting July 2023 Donations
MOTION: Director Bowman moved to accept the $165.00 in donations to the district, and Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,
Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed.

D. Non-Action: Resolution for Authorizing Payment of Specific Statements in Advance for FY24
Virginia Verbrugge, Assistant Director of Finance
A discussion occurred in regard to the Resolution Authorizing Payment of Specific Statements in Advance for
FY24, in preparation for a vote for approval at the September 6, 2023 Business Meeting. Ms. Verbrugge was available for questions. Information providing the impact of removing items 2: Contracted transportation invoices, 3: Registration and travel expenses and 9: Special program speakers fees, consulting fees, and contracted personnel service fees was brought forth to the Work Session this evening for further discussion.
MOTION: Director Vento moved to remove items 2, 3 and 9 from the resolution and immediately move to action for approval of the remaining items in the resolution for the rest of the year, and Director Brooks seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett,

Bowman, Brooks, Evans-Becker, Holmes, Long and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none.
Said motion was declared duly passed.

E. Non-Action: e-Learning Plan for SY 2023-2024
John Groenke, Executive Director of Student Services and Matt Pletcher, Director of Secondary Curriculum and Multilingual Programs
Mr. Groenke and Mr. Pletcher brought back the e-Learning Plan for SY 2023-2024 that had been revised per
School Board recommendations provided at the August 7, 2023 Work Session. It was recommended the plan be brought to action for approval at the September 6, 2023 Business Meeting.

F. Non-Action: Proposed Resolution for Armstrong/Cooper Boys Swimming Cooperative Sponsorship
Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities
Mr. Williams brought forth the proposal for the Cooper activities department to manage the combined
Cooper/Armstrong boys swim team, to compete in the Tri-Metro conference, with the goal of adding non-conference meets with Northwest Suburban conference opponents. It was recommended the resolution be brought to action for approval at the September 6, 2023 Business Meeting.

G. Non-Action: Proposed Resolution for Armstrong/Cooper Girls Lacrosse Cooperative Sponsorship
Anthony Williams, Executive Director of Community Education, Athletics and Activities
Mr. Williams brought forth the proposal for the Armstrong activities department to manage the combined
Armstrong/Cooper girls lacrosse team, to compete in the Northwest Suburban conference, with the goal of adding non-conference meets with Tri-Metro conference opponents. It was recommended the resolution be brought to action for approval at the September 6, 2023 Business Meeting.

H. Non-Action: Human Resources Staffing Update
Amy O'Hern, Executive Director of Human Resources
Ms. O'Hern provided the "Human Resources Staffing Update," and was available for questions and discussion.

|. Non-Action: Policy Update
Governance Policy Committee Members
A new regular item on the Business Meeting agenda, where policies reviewed by the committee will be brought forth for feedback from the Board. Recently passed policy 206 requires further conversation in a Work
Session to clarify public commentilistening time confusion. Three other policies are currently being reviewed by the committee: AP 504 - Student Dress and Appearance, Policy 506 - Student Discipline and Policy 524 -
Internet Acceptable Use and Safety.

J. Non-Action: Transportation Update
Carrie Johnson, Director of Transportation and Alissa Pier, Interim Executive Director of Facilities, Operations and Transportation
Ms. Johnson provided the "Transportation Update." She and Ms. Pier answered questions afterwards.

Consent Agenda

Consent Agenda items include administrative, personnel matters, and financial matters.

MOTION: Director Evans-Becker moved approval of the Consent Agenda, Director Vento seconded the motion. Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes,and Long.
And the following voted against the same: none. Said motion was declared duly passed.

Board Reports

Each month Board Members share updates from their different committee assignments and attendance at district and community events. Before the Business Meeting, Director Holmes facilitated the listening time held at 6 p.m. in the
Boardroom at the Education Service Center. Three community members spoke in regards to:

e Equity and Inclusion - Accountability of the Communications Team using photos of RAS students using hand signals that are insulting to certain immigrant families. Also for the high school back to school get-togethers
Armstrong has food trucks and is well-publicized, where Cooper does a cookout with little publicity.

e Graduation commencements - request for cost comparison between doing them at the schools vs. at the convention center.

e Appreciation for cell phone guidelines provided to students and families.

e Request to make sure our students are provided what they are entitled... a good education.

Announcements (can be found on our website)

Adjournment

MOTION: Director Brooks moved to adjourn the Business meeting, and Director Evans-Becker seconded the motion.
Upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in favor thereof: Directors Bassett, Bowman, Brooks, Holmes,
Long, and Vento. And the following voted against the same: none. Meeting was adjourned.

Prepared and submitted by:

Molly Olson

Assistant Clerk, Robbinsdale Area Schools

Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and School Board

sone, <P Up4~ vac, (406/202

School Board Clerk, Independent School District 281